"August 15 is the birthday of the independent and sovereign state of Pakistan.
"Desi diet" refers to a diet and food choices followed by Indians around the world.
"Eid al-" is often replaced with Eid'l in the country's local English variant.
"End of Ramadan"), Araw ng Raya ("Feast Day"), or Pagtatapos ng Pag-aayuno ("End of the Fast") in Filipino.
"From the government-issued textbooks, students are taught that Hindus are backward and superstitious", the report stated.
"In 1944, Habibi claimed to have discovered an eighteenth-century manuscript anthology containing much older biographies and verses of Pashto poets that stretched back as far as the eighth century.
"In the end, national language policy, especially in the field of education in the NWFP, had constructed a type of three tiered language hierarchy.
"Islamic activists" such as much or the ulama (Islamic clerics) and Jamaat-e-Islami (Islamist party), support the expansion of "Islamic law and Islamic practices".
"Islamisation" was the "primary" policy, or "centerpiece" of his government.
"It's not a very experienced team but it's very talented.
"Kautilya was also a Professor of Politics and Economics at Taxila University.
"Lollywood" is a portmanteau derived from Lahore and "Hollywood", a shorthand reference for the American film industry, Hollywood.
"Nidhubabur Tappa," or tappas sung by Nidhu Babu were very popular in 18th and 19th-century Bengal.
"Om Anant tam Taran Tarini Twam Hari Om Narayan, Anant Hari Om Narayan".
"Standard Pashto is actually fairly complex with multiple varieties or forms.
"Students from Magadha traversed the vast distances of northern India in order to join the schools and colleges of Taxila.
"The Bodhisatta was once the youngest of one hundred sons of the king of Benares.
"The Pakistani media has covered the journey of 100 years in just 10 years, but their curiosity and thrust for revelation does not end and that is what drives the media".
"The morphological differences between the most extreme north-eastern and south-western dialects are comparatively few and unimportant.
"The version described in his Kitab Al-Tabikh (Book of Recipes), the world's oldest surviving Arabic cookbook, is strikingly similar to the one people in the Middle East eat to this day" it reported.
"They all really worked hard with the guys and kept them united and close to each other, that's why we had success," Afridi said.
"This case, along with the missing persons' case has established impartiality and credibility of the media in its fight against corruption".
"Today is like a dream come true," Mohsin told Sky Sports.
"We all know how important this World Cup was with so much happening in Pakistan," Afridi said.
"Western Punjabi" or "Lahnda" (لہندا, lit.
"[ai] According to Jim Shaffer there was a continuous series of cultural developments, just as in most areas of the world.
"[page needed] Often organized in some countries by the Sunni Sufi orders, Mawlid is celebrated in a carnival manner, large street processions are held and homes or mosques are decorated.
"rice assemblage") mentioned in Sangam literature, though it is not known if this developed into the modern pilau.
'Feast of the Sacrifice') is the second of the two main festivals in Islam, alongside Eid al-Fitr.
'Festival of Breaking the Fast') is the first of the two main festivals in Islam, the other being Eid al-Adha.
'Mound of the Dead Men'; Urdu: موئن جو دڑو [muˑənⁱ dʑoˑ d̪əɽoˑ]) is an archaeological site in Larkana District, Sindh, Pakistan.
'Night of the moon') is a South Asian Cultural observance on the eve of the festival of Eid al-Fitr; it can also mean a night with a new moon for the new Islamic month Shawwal.
'Royal Fort') is a citadel in the walled interior of Lahore in Punjab, Pakistan.
'one who sings in harmony with') led by a principal singer.
'three brave ones') was produced and directed by Sharmeen Obaid Chinoy.
(2011) state that their research on lactose tolerance in India suggests that "the west Eurasian genetic contribution identified by Reich et al.
(2012), the IVC residents did not develop irrigation capabilities, relying mainly on the seasonal monsoons leading to summer floods.
(2012), the slow southward migration of the monsoons across Asia initially allowed the Indus Valley villages to develop by taming the floods of the Indus and its tributaries.
(2016) also found evidence for an entirely separate domestication process of rice in ancient South Asia, based around the wild species Oryza nivara.
(a) Article 20 : Freedom to profess religion and to manage religious institutions.
(b) Article 21 : Safeguard against taxation for purposes of any particular religion.
(c) Article 22 : Safeguards as to educational institutions in respect of religion, etc.
(e) Article 26 : Non-discrimination in respect of access to public places.
(f) Article 27 : Safeguard against discrimination in services.
(g) Article 36 : Protection of Minorities.
(h) Article 38 : Promotion of social and economic well-being of all the people.
* Saraiki and Hindko were included with Punjabi until the 1981 census.
*Census data for the Pakistani administered territories of Gilgit-Baltistan and Azad Kashmir not available as of 2024.
*The retroflex rhotic or lateral, tends to be a lateral flap [𝼈] at the beginning of a syllable or other prosodic unit, and a regular flap [ɽ] or approximant [ɻ] elsewhere.
... (p. 173) the settlement at Lothal ... along the east side was a brick basin.
... (p. 188–189) The discussion of trade focuses attention upon methods of transport.
... On its edge the excavator discovered several heavily-pierced stones, similar to modern anchor stones employed by traditional seafaring communities of Western India.
/j/ is only truly pronounced word-initially (even then it often becomes /d͡ʒ/), where it is otherwise /ɪ/ or /i/.
/ʋ/ is realized as labiovelar [w] or labiodental [ʋ] in free variation, but is not common, except before a stop.
1 million (US$3,500) which is biggest preview collections ever in Pakistan.
1.5 billion was spent on this renovation, which was being done for the first time since the 1996 Cricket World Cup.
10,000s of activists from the Jamaat-e-Islami party were appointed to government posts to ensure the continuation of his agenda after his passing.
10.5 crore (US$360,000) at the end of April.
11th century) and Shahbaz Qalander in Sehwan, Sindh (ca.
11th century), Sultan Bahoo in Shorkot Jhang, Baha-ud-din Zakariya in Multan, and Shahbaz Qalander in Sehwan (ca.
12th century) and Shah Abdul Latif Bhitai in Bhit, Sindh and Rehman Baba in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province.
1375 CE), Chandidas (14th–15th century), and Meerabai (1555–1603 CE).
15 had caption: Mohenjo-daro: representation of ship on a stone seal (length 4.3 cm) (after Mackay).
153-54), other mechanisms, including overland traffic by peddlers or caravans, may account for their presence at Susa.
190,000 m2; 2,000,000 ft2 of land were assigned for the project and the execution was assigned to Pakistani engineers and workers.
1998 saw the release of Noor's Choorian, a Punjabi film that grossed Rs180 million rupees.
2.15% as per 2017 census conducted by Pakistan government authority.
20 million (US$69,000) at the box office.
2013 proved to be a great year for Pakistani cinema.
2014 proved to be an equally great year, with Na Maloom Afraad (Unidentified Persons) taking the 2014 box office.
2015 picked off from the momentum of 2014 and 2013.
2016 continued the momentum of new age Pakistani cinema.
22 million (US$76,000) in its first week of release.
25 million years ago, the Indus Plain was lifted.
2nd century BC writer Patanjali compiled his compendium on Yoga in Kashmir.
3 Bahadur became Pakistan's first computer-animated feature-length film.
3 crore (US$100,000) overseas, taking lifetime gross to Rs.
33.46 million of these are found in Sindh, where they account for 60% of the total population of the province.
5 million (US$17,000) before its release as Malik Riaz had bought 10,000 tickets in advance.
5% of Pakistan's land is covered in forest (2024).
6 of these districts also have literacy rates above 80%.
6 of these districts also have literacy rates at or above 90%, with the highest being Upper Chitral at 95%.
6.63 crore (US$230,000) after 50 days of successful run in cinemas and became 7th highest-grossing film in Pakistani cinema history.
7.15–7.16], etc, and a terracotta model of a ship, with a stick impressed socket for the mast and eyeholes for fixing rigging comes from Lothal.
7.50 crore (US$260,000) at domestic box office and around Rs.
92-94) may be evidence of maritime trade between Susa and the Indus Valley in the late 3rd millennium BCE.
96.47% are Muslims, followed by 2.14% Hindus, 1.27% Christians, 0.09% Ahmadis and 0.02% others.
: 195–203 Since a long time, feelings between Hindus and Muslims were intensifying.
: 37 There are also claims of state apathy towards the language in non-Punjabi majority areas like Haryana and Delhi.
A 2010 opinion poll by PEW Research Centre also found that 87% of Pakistanis considered themselves 'Muslims first' rather than a member of their nationality.
A 2010 survey by the Sikh Resource and Study Centre reported 50,000 Sikhs living in Pakistan.
A 2012 study by Gallup Pakistan found that people not affiliated to any religion account for 1% of the population.
A 2012 study found 50% of surveyed Pakistanis considered Shia as Muslims while 41% rejected Shia as Muslims.
A 75 meter long, 44 meter wide screen was installed at the ground in 2007 at a cost of Rs.
A Bengali version of the full-shaped samosa is called a সিঙাড়া (shingara) and is normally smaller than the standard variety.
A Dastar is an proud of headgear associated with Sikhism and is an important part of the Punjabi and Sikh culture.
A National Music Festival was held to commemorate the 70th Independence Day of Pakistan in August 2017.
A PEW opinion poll found that 84% of Pakistanis favoured making Sharia the official law of the land.
A PEW survey in 2012 found that 6% of Pakistani Muslims were Shia.
A Punjabi suit that features two items - a qameez (top), salwar (bottom) is the traditional attire of the Punjabi people.
A Qawwāl is someone who often repeats or sings a Qawl.
A T20I match scheduled to be played against Bangladesh on 27 January 2020 at the Gaddafi stadium was abandoned without a ball being bowled due to heavy rain.
A Very ancient 500 years old Dhrupad Gharana from Bihar is Dumraon Gharana, Pt.
A change of guard takes place at national monuments by the Armed Forces.
A columnist with a valley based newspaper, is of the opinion that the cap became popular in the 1950s after being sported by Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad, the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir.
A common conceit that traces its history to the origins of the ghazal form is that the poem is addressed to a beloved by the narrator.
A common theme is unconditional love for a higher being or for a mortal beloved which may lift the poet into the ranks of the wise or will bring satisfaction to the soul of the poet.
A complete and elaborate set of sirih pinang equipment is called tepak, puan, pekinangan, or cerana.
A considerable number were carted away as track ballast for the railway lines being laid in the Punjab.
A different branch, the Nanakpanth, follows the teachings of the Guru Granth Sahib, also known as the holy book of the Sikhs.
A different organisation called World Kabaddi was founded in 2018.
A dry core drilling conducted in 2015 by Pakistan's National Fund for Mohenjo-daro revealed that the site is larger than the unearthed area.
A few Indian Christians like Pothan Joseph had rendered valuable services as journalists and supporters of the All India Muslim League.
A few Protestant groups conduct missions in Pakistan.
A few are highly endangered languages that may soon have no speakers at all.
A few aspects of secularism have also been adopted by Pakistani constitution from British colonial concept.
A few nouns representing familial relations take irregular declensions with an extension in -r- in the plural.
A fourth independent branch, Dardic, was previously posited, but recent scholarship in general places Dardic languages as archaic members of the Indo-Aryan branch.
A full inter-services joint military parade is rehearsed and broadcast live by the news media all over the country.
A further decision was taken by Sri Lanka after a security delegation inspects venues in Lahore and Karachi in early August 2019.
A general Mawlid appears as "a chaotic, incoherent spectacle, where numerous events happen simultaneously, all held together only by the common festive time and space".
A ghazal is composed of couplets, five or more.
A ghazal's rhyming pattern may be described as AA BA CA DA, and so on.
A girl perfectly, for the moment, perfectly confident of herself and the world.
A gradual drying of the region during the 3rd millennium BCE may have been the initial stimulus for its urbanisation.
A gram-flour fritter is known in Tamil Nadu and Sri Lanka as pakoda or bajji, in Gujarat as bhajia, in Maharashtra as bhaji, and in Andhra Pradesh/Telangana and Karnataka as bajji or pakodi.
A great place to visit for families with their children and their out-of-town visiting guests.
A group of Italians helped repair the Buddha at Jahan Abad, Swat.
A growing number of urban Hindu youth in Pakistan associate themselves with ISKCON society.
A high brick wall richly decorated with intricate fretwork encloses the site in order to allow for the creation of a Charbagh paradise garden - a microcosm of an earthly utopia.
A high-calorie dish, haleem provides protein from the meat and fibre and carbohydrates from the various combinations of grains and pulses.
A highly Persianised and technical form of Urdu was the lingua franca of the law courts of the British administration in Bengal and the North-West Provinces & Oudh.
A historical reference to this was made in the Tarikh-I-Ferozeshi.
A human deity with the horns, hooves and tail of a bull also appears in the seals, in particular in a fighting scene with a horned tiger-like beast.
A karahi-like vessel is first mentioned in the Vedas as bharjanapatra.
A key characteristic of Qawwali is its emphasis on improvisation and lyrics derived from Sufi poetry, often expressing themes of divine love, longing, and spiritual devotion.
A language movement was started in the 1960s to standardise a script and promote the language.
A large number of seals have been found at such sites as Mohenjo-Daro and Harappa.
A large population of them have migrated to India after the partition.
A larger number of Pakistani Hazaras speak Hazaragi dialect.
A lighter form of dhrupad called dhamar, is sung primarily during the spring festival of Holi.
A lot of the depicted stories are ultimately based upon bardic literature, such as the legends of Shah Behram and Husan Banu.
A major aspect of Mughal architecture is the symmetrical nature of buildings and courtyards.
A major controversy occurred in 2006 when the team toured England for a four-match Test series.
A major programme of expansion saw new stations open at Karachi and Rawalpindi in 1948, and a new broadcasting house at Karachi in 1950.
A major tourist attraction in Pakistan, the mosque is a contemporary and influential piece of Islamic architecture.
A majority of Pakistan's Muslim population has had some form of formal or informal education in the reading, writing and pronunciation of Arabic as part of their religious education.
A man can enter a Hujra at any time of the day, month or year and be sure of getting safety, food and shelter.
A memorial service was held in Sacred Heart Church, Lahore, for Bob Woolmer on 1 April 2007.
A minority of madrasas are affiliated with the Ahl-i Hadith.
A modern version was introduced by the government of India in 1948; however, it did not gain full acceptance, so both the Sindhi-Arabic and Devanagari scripts are used.
A month after the attack on the Sri Lankan team, the International Cricket Council relieved Pakistan of co-hosting duty for any 2011 Cricket World Cup games.
A museum comprising various sections with rich archaeological finds of Taxila, arranged in chronological order and properly labeled, has been established close to the site.
A new fort was constructed in 1267 at the site by Sultan Balban of the Mamluk dynasty of the Delhi Sultanate.
A new style of architecture known as Indo-Saracenic revival style developed, from a mixture of European and Indo-Islamic components.
A number of Gurukuls, such as that of Alauddin Khan at Maihar, flourished.
A number of award ceremonies are often held on this day, and Pakistanis hoist the national flag atop their homes or display it prominently on their vehicles and attire.
A number of channels have been shut down in the past with the latest such incident involving Geo TV and other channels in the Geo TV network after a Fatwa was issued against it.
A number of daily newspapers and several monthly magazines in Urdu are published in these states.
A number of instruments (such as the sitar) also developed in this time.
A number of studies show that the area which is today the Thar Desert was once far wetter and that the climate gradually became drier.
A particularly beautiful example of Buddhist architecture is the ruins of the Buddhist monastery Takht-i-Bahi in the northwest province.
A particularly interesting aspect of this gender disparity is representation of Pakistani women in STEMM (science, technology, engineering, mathematics and medicine).
A patti is commonly named after the clan or lineage of the founder or the predominant group that inhabit them.
A piece of shell found in Mackay's excavation is very precisely incised with lines spaced 6.7 mm (0.264 in) apart.
A pivotal moment in the history of television in Pakistan occurred in the year 2002 with the liberalisation of the media industry.
A plan was formulated to develop a new stadium for which a plot of land measuring 174.5 acres was acquired by the Pakistan Public Works Department through the Commissioner of Karachi.
A planned extension of the railway will eventually connect Taxila to China's Southern Xinjiang Railway in Kashgar, as part of the China–Pakistan Economic Corridor.
A player going to the opposition is treated like a bull.
A poem of ghazal commonly consists of five to fifteen couplets, which are independent, but are linked – abstractly, in their theme; and more strictly in their poetic form.
A point is scored for each defender tagged; tags can be made with any part of the raider's body and touching any part of the defender's body.
A popular folklore in the Punjab region links Lohri to the tale of Dulla Bhatti.
A powerful unrest followed, after which Twelve Martial Laws were imposed by the British authorities.
A preliminary proposal to encode the Multani script in ISO/IEC 10646 was submitted in 2011.
A professional state-of-the-art studio is operational and so are the mobile units which are well-equipped to capture/record event in any part of the country.
A professional video studio has been established by the center at Islamabad.
A prominent figure in Pakistani visual arts was the Karachi-based watercolourist Qudsia Azmat Nisar, who died in 2021.
A quarterly “Urdu Science Magazine” is being published regularly by Urdu Science Board since 2002.
A raid where no points are scored by the raider is referred to as an "empty raid".
A reason for this is that females who are a vulnerable group, are less likely to access as much education as boys.
A recent study in Pakistan compared teachers who were employed by regular institutions and special education institutions.
A recent study introduced the "betel year," a novel metric designed to quantify lifetime exposure to betel quid chewing and enhance oral cancer risk prediction through personalized assessment.
A relationship with the Dravidian or Elamo-Dravidian language family is favoured by a section of scholars.
A renowned Congressite, Tufail Ahmad Manglori, once acknowledged that the passage of a resolution against Urdu in the United Provinces caused deep distress among Muslims.
A report mentions that they are only found in the Azad Kashmir region.
A ruler found at Lothal (2400 BCE) is calibrated to about 1.6 mm (1⁄16 in).
A samosa can be either vegetarian or non-vegetarian, depending on the filling.
A science park in Lahore, the Arfa Software Technology Park, was named after her.
A seal discovered at the site bears the image of a seated, cross-legged and possibly ithyphallic figure surrounded by animals.
A second Sehdari pavilion was located to the west of the Bari Khwabgah, but was subsequently destroyed during the British period.
A second rather similar grey stone torso of a dancing male was also found about 150 meters away in a secure Mature Harappan stratum.
A section of dhrupad singers of Delhi Gharana from Mughal emperor Shah Jahan's court migrated to Bettiah under the patronage of the Bettiah Raj, giving rise to the Bettiah Gharana.
A session of Qawwali is formally referred to as "Mehfil-e-Sama," as it is considered a form of sama, a Sufi tradition performed as part of the meditation and prayer practice known as dhikr.
A shortage of teachers and poorly equipped laboratories have resulted in the out-dated curriculum that has little relevance to present-day needs.
A significant Hindu pilgrimage site known as Hinglaj Mata takes place in southern Balochistan, where over 250,000 people visit during spring as a pilgrimage.
A sophisticated and technologically advanced urban culture is evident in the Indus Valley Civilisation, making them the first urban centre in the region.
A speech by Gandhi was read at the event by Khalifa Shuja-ud-Din, who would later become Speaker of the Provincial Assembly of the Punjab.
A steatite bust known as the "Priest-King", excavated at Mohenjo-daro and currently in the National Museum of Pakistan, shows one shoulder draped in a piece of cloth that resembles an ajrak.
A story from Kerala titled "The Legend of Chessboard", holds that an old sage, who was Krishna in disguise, challenged the king of Ambalapuzha (chess enthusiasts) to a game.
A study published by the Research Journal of Commerce, Economics, and Social Sciences, discusses the importance of education.
A study revealed that reflective writing and case studies have been the best approach to raising awareness about human rights issues in teacher preparation programs in Pakistan.
A subset of Shia in Pakistan are the Hazara ethnic group—which are distinct from other Shi’a due to their language and facial features.
A sweet version of paan called meetha paan is popular amongst many who do not like the strong taste of plain (sada) paan.
A tape ball is a tennis ball wrapped in electrical tape and is used in playing backyard cricket.
A touchstone bearing gold streaks was found in Banawali, which was probably used for testing the purity of gold (such a technique is still used in some parts of India).
A typical example is aloo gosht (literally "potatoes and meat"), a homestyle recipe consisting of a spiced meat and potato stew, prepared in many households.
A wide variety of lentils is consumed in Pakistan and frequently with rice.
A young Inzamam-ul-Haq, who had just turned 22 and was not a well-known player at the time, burst onto the international stage with a match-winning 60 off 37 balls.
A-level institutions are different from high school.
A. catechu is believed to be originally native to the Philippines, where it has the greatest morphological diversity as well as the most closely related endemic species.
AKC's tenth season was played in Gorgan, Iran, in 2017 in which India won its tenth gold by defeating Pakistan in the finals.
ARY Digital was launched in September 2000, Geo Entertainment in August 2002, Aaj TV in March 2005 and Hum TV was launched in January 2005, and the phenomenon went on.
ATV became Pakistan's sole semi-private TV channel, broadcasting on both terrestrial and satellite platforms.
Abdolhamid Ziaei considers the content of old Persian ghazal to include four elements: love, mysticism, education or excellence, and Qalandari.
Abdul Hai Habibi believed that the earliest modern Pashto work dates back to Amir Kror Suri of the early Ghurid period in the 8th century, and they use the writings found in Pata Khazana.
Abdus Salam was a Pakistani theoretical physicist and Nobel laureate in physics for his work on the electroweak unification of the electromagnetic and weak forces.
Abida Parveen is another renowned kafi singer of Sindh, but she, too, sings in many other genres.
Abolfazl Beyhaqi (995–1077), an Iranian historian, mentioned it in his history, Tarikh-e Beyhaghi.
About 60% Muslims in Pakistan regard themselves as followers of Sufi saints.
About 90 to 95% of Pakistani Christians are Dalits from the caste who converted from Hinduism.
About 93% of Hindus live in Sindh, 5% in Punjab and nearly 2% in Balochistan.
Above mentioned national broadcasters, i.e PTV Corp and SRBC do not come under purview of PEMRA.
Abraham knew that this was a command from God.
Abraham prepared to submit to the will of God and to slaughter his son as an act of faith and obedience to God.
Abstract symmetric representations of surrounding elements and environment were used.
Abū Rayḥān Muḥammad ibn Aḥmad Al-Bīrūnī states in his book Alberuni's India that the coast of India begins with Tiz, the capital of Makran.
According to 2023 census, Taxila had a population of 136,900.
According to Acharya Dhaneswarasuri's "Shatrunjaya Mahatmya," Javad Shah, a merchant from Mahuva, renovated Palitana temples in Vikrama Samvat 108.
According to Ahmed (2014), Harappan oven structures may have operated in a similar manner to the modern tandoors of the Punjab.
According to Air Marshal Nur Khan, Army Chief General Musa Khan told President Muhammad Ayub Khan on the second day of the war that the Army had run out of ammunition.
According to Apracha chronology, Indravarma was the son of Visnuvarma, an Aprachraja preceding Vijayamitra.
According to Bruce (2021), Urdu has adapted English words since the eighteenth century.
According to Buddhist accounts written centuries later, he had forged diplomatic ties with Magadha and achieved victories over neighbouring kingdoms such as that of the realm of Avanti.
According to Delhi-based historian Sohail Hashmi, pilau tends to be plainer than biryani, and consists of meat or vegetables cooked with rice with the bottom layered with potatoes or onions.
According to Diodorus Siculus, the Asvakas, including women fighting alongside their husbands, valiantly resisted Alexander's army but were ultimately defeated.
According to Dr. Akhtar Baloch, Professor at University of Karachi, the Balochis migrated from Balochistan during the Little Ice Age and settled in Sindh and Punjab.
According to Encyclopædia Britannica, however, what the Fatimids did was simply a procession of court officials, which did not involve the public but was restricted to the court of the Fatimid caliph.
According to Festivals in World Religions, the Mawlid was first introduced by the Abbasids in Baghdad.
According to Gilani Kamran (GC University), Pakistani literature was expected to take a new direction along with the new state of Pakistan at this point, but did not immediately meet this expectation.
According to Islamic tradition, Arabic, the language of Muhammad and the Qur'an, holds spiritual significance and power.
According to Islamic tradition, one of the main trials of Abraham's life was to receive and obey the command of God to slaughter his beloved son, Ishmael.
According to Khushwant Singh, approximately 2.5 million Sikhs vacated Pakistan after the country's formation in 1947.
According to Muslim tradition, Muhammad instituted the celebration of Eid al-Fitr.
According to Ordinance XX, Ahmadi Muslims cannot call themselves Muslim or "pose as Muslims" which is punishable by three years in prison.
According to Pakistani politicians such as Hanif Ramay and Fakhar Zaman, the Saraiki linguistic movement was thought to have been pushed by feudal landowners of the Seraiki belt.
According to Peter Harvey, the religion recovered slowly from these invasions during the 7th century, with the "Buddhism of Punjab and Sindh remaining strong".
According to Possehl, after 1900 BCE the number of sites in today's India increased from 218 to 853.
According to Professor Baloch, the climate of Balochistan was very cold and the region was uninhabitable during the winter so the Baloch people migrated in waves and settled in Sindh and Punjab.
According to Qureshi, the distinctiveness of Muslim India could only be maintained by the political domination of the Muslims over the Hindus.
According to Richard Salomon, most of them belong to the Dharmaguptaka school.
According to Sahih Muslim, the prophet fasted on his own birthday, which is why some Muslims also observe that fact and fast the day.
According to Shajeel Zaidi a million people attended Zia ul Haq's funeral because he had given them what they wanted: more religion.
According to StraitsResearch, The India pan masala market is expected to reach US$10,365 million by 2026 at the CAGR of 10.4% during the forecast period 2019–2026.
According to Tarikh-i-Hind (also known as the Chach Nama) by 6th century AD there existed a port called Debal in what is now the western part of the Indus delta.
According to UNESCO's 2009 Global Education Digest, 6% of Pakistanis (9% of men and 3.5% of women) were university graduates as of 2007.
According to Wheeler, carts would have brought grain from the countryside and unloaded them directly into the bays.
According to a 2003 report, an average Pakistani consumed three times more meat than an average Indian.
According to a 2009 UNESCO report, Brahui is one of the 27 languages of Pakistan that are facing the danger of extinction.
According to a 2013 survey conducted by the Pakistan Hindu Seva Welfare Trust, the literacy rate among Scheduled Caste Hindus in Pakistan is just 16%.
According to a 2015 report by India TV, Hinduism is reported to be the fastest-growing religion in Pakistan.
According to a Minority Rights Group International report published in 2002, the average literacy rate among Christians in Pakistan was 34 percent compared to the national average of 46.56 percent.
According to a certain hadith, these festivals were initiated in Medina after the migration of Muhammad from Mecca.
According to a report by the UK Foreign Office, Pakistan's media environment continued to develop and, in many cases, flourish.
According to a report, most of the Baori Buddhists do not have CNIC cards, and the actual Buddhist population could exceed 16,000.
According to a specific Jataka, Gandhara's territorial extent at a certain period encompassed the region of Kashmir.
According to a survey, there were 428 Hindu temples in Pakistan at the time of Partition and 408 of them were now turned into toy stores, restaurants, government offices and schools.
According to a tradition, Baba Ratan Hindi was a trader from Punjab who was one of the non-Arab companions of Muhammad.
According to another reliquary inscription Indravarma is noted as the Lord of Gandhara and general during the reign of Vijayamitra.
According to critics, the decades of 1970s and 1980s are considered to be the golden age of Pakistani serials.
According to early Christian legend, Thomas the Apostle visited Gondophares IV around 46 CE, possibly at Taxila given that city was Gondophares' capital city.
According to estimates in religious minorities in Pakistan's elections, Hindus have a population of 50,000 or more in 11 districts.
According to folklore, in ancient times Lohri was celebrated at the end of the traditional month when winter solstice occurs.
According to him, about 200 to 250 Hindu villages were converted in the last two and a half years between 2014 and 2016.
According to historian Nabi Bux Baloch, most Sindhi vocabulary is from ancient Sanskrit.
According to journalist Pamela Constable, in the 1980s and 1990s tensions between Christians and Muslims in Pakistan began to "fester".
According to post-Vedic legends of the Mahabharata, Gandhara played a role in the Kurukshetra War.
According to scholar Shuja Nawaz, the Pakistani military intended to capture the Akhnoor bridge and swing towards Jammu to cut off India's communications with Kashmir Valley.
According to several critics it had not only evolved its own identity but also had played a significant role in documenting the hardships and hopes of Pakistan in the latter part of the 20th century.
According to some accounts, the Macedonian fleet (of Alexander the Great) anchored itself for some time in the Indus river delta.
According to supporters of the movement, establishing an Islamic state based on sharia law would mean a return to the justice and success of the early days of Islam when Muhammad ruled the Muslims.
According to the 1901 census, the Christian population in Pakistan comprised roughly 59,387 persons or 0.3 percent of the total population.
According to the 1901 census, the Hindu population in Pakistan comprised roughly 3.01 million persons or 17.1 percent of the total population.
According to the 1901 census, the Sikh population in Pakistan comprised roughly 529,910 persons or 3.0 percent of the total population.
According to the 1911 census, the Christian population in Pakistan comprised roughly 167,178 persons or 0.9 percent of the total population.
According to the 1911 census, the Hindu population in Pakistan comprised roughly 2.77 million persons or 14.7 percent of the total population.
According to the 1911 census, the Sikh population in Pakistan comprised roughly 884,987 persons or 4.7 percent of the total population.
According to the 1921 census, the Christian population in Pakistan comprised roughly 276,107 persons or 1.4 percent of the total population.
According to the 1921 census, the Hindu population in Pakistan comprised roughly 2.96 million persons or 15.3 percent of the total population.
According to the 1921 census, the Sikh population in Pakistan comprised roughly 931,489 persons or 4.8 percent of the total population.
According to the 1931 census, the Christian population in Pakistan comprised roughly 360,371 persons or 1.6 percent of the total population.
According to the 1931 census, the Hindu population in Pakistan comprised roughly 3.30 million persons or 14.7 percent of the total population.
According to the 1931 census, the Sikh population in Pakistan comprised roughly 1.28 million persons or 5.7 percent of the total population.
According to the 1941 census, the Christian population in Pakistan comprised roughly 432,724 persons or 1.6 percent of the total population.
According to the 1941 census, the Hindu population in Pakistan comprised roughly 3.98 million persons or 14.6 percent of the total population.
According to the 1941 census, the Sikh population in Pakistan comprised roughly 1.67 million persons or 6.1 percent of the total population.
According to the 1941 census, the Sikh population in urban portions of Baluchistan Agency was approximately 11,041, or 9.7 percent of the total urban population.
According to the 1941 census, the Sikh population in urban portions of North-West Frontier Province was approximately 41,399, or 7.5 percent of the total urban population.
According to the 1951 census, the Hindu population in Pakistan comprised 531,131 persons or 1.58 percent of the total population.
According to the 1951 census, the Sikh population in Pakistan comprised roughly 1,476 persons or 0.004 percent of the total population.
According to the 1961 census, the Hindu population in Pakistan comprised 621,805 persons or 1.45 percent of the total population.
According to the 1961 census, the Hindu population in Pakistan comprised 900,206 persons or 1.44 percent of the total population.
According to the 1998 census, people who did not state their religion accounted for 0.5% of the population, but social pressure against claiming no religion was strong.
According to the 2013 Pew Research Center report, the majority of Pakistani Muslims also support the death penalty for those who leave Islam (62%).
According to the 2023 census, only about 9.25% of Pakistanis reported it as their first language.
According to the 2023 census, speakers of the Kohistani languages accounted around 1 million of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province population.
According to the 2023 census, the Christian population in Pakistan comprised 3,300,788 persons or 1.4 percent of the total population.
According to the Australian Journal of Asian Law, in 2018, Pakistan defined what they consider to be "transgender".
According to the CIA World Factbook and Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies, 96–97% of the total population of Pakistan is Muslim.
According to the Dipavamsa, one of Taxila's early kings was a Kshatriya named Dipankara who was succeeded by twelve sons and grandsons.
According to the Government of Pakistan's National Database and Registration Authority, there were 6,146 Sikhs registered in Pakistan in 2012.
According to the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan data, around 1,000 Hindu families fled to India in 2013.
According to the Jaina tradition, Rishabhanatha, the first Tirthankara, entrusted the region of Ayodhya to his son Bharata and the region of Takshashila to his son Bahubali.
According to the National Commission of Justice and Peace and the Pakistan Hindu Council (PHC) around 1000 non-Muslim minority women are converted to Islam and then forcibly married off.
According to the National Database and Registration Authority (NADRA), there were 1,492 buddhists in holding national identity cards (CNICs) in 2012.
According to the Navadirul Alfaz by Khan-i Arzu, the "Zaban-e Urdu-e Shahi" [language of the Imperial Camp] had attained special importance in the time of Alamgir".
According to the Pakistan Bureau of Statistics (formerly the Federal Bureau of Statistics), they had a combined daily sale of 6.1 million copies in 2009.
According to the Prabhavakacharita, by the second to third century CE, there were approximately 500 Jaina temples in Takshashila, and it was occupied by a significant number of Jainas.
According to the Sindh Private Educational Institutions Form B (Regulations and Control) 2005 Rules, "All educational institutions are required to teach children the Sindhi language.
According to the Sustainable Development Policy Institute report, "Associated with the insistence on the Ideology of Pakistan has been an essential component of hate against India and the Hindus.
According to the Taranatha, following the death of Ashoka, the northwestern region seceded from the Maurya Empire, and Virasena emerged as its king.
According to the UK's 2001 census, there were 346 Pakistani Sikhs in the UK.
According to the UN in 2011, Pakistan was the most heavily deforested country in Asia.
According to the agreement, the NBP will be permitted to utilize the venue's signs and nomenclature outside of the playing area.
According to the archeologist Professor Vasant Shinde, the earliest evidence for a dish similar to tandoori chicken can be found in the Harappan civilization and dates back to 3000 BC.
According to the data, Pakistan faces a significant unemployment challenge, particularly among its educated youth, with over 31% of them being unemployed.
According to the first proto-ethnographic documentations, the inhabitants of Kafiristan, the Nuristanis, went about without any headgear.
According to the food historian K. T. Achaya, kheer (or payasam, as it is known in South India) was a popular dish in ancient India.
According to the historian Rana Safvi, the earliest actual recipe is from the later Mughal period, from Bahadur Shah Zafar's time.
According to the hypothesis of Nico Kaptein of Leiden University, the Mawlid was initiated by the Fatimids.
According to the last Census in Pakistan, Ahmadi Muslim made up 0.07% of the population; however, the Ahmadiyya Muslim community boycotted the census.
According to the majority of Sunni Muslims and most Shias, Muhammad was born on the 12th of Rabi' al-Awwal.
According to the narrative, Abraham kept having dreams that he was sacrificing his son.
According to the sport's origins, kabaddi is a sport developed centered on Jallikattu.
According to the survey done under the Red Plus programme in 2017, the forest cover of Pakistan is 5.7%.
According to these new amendments, the publisher would be liable and prosecuted if a story was not to the liking of the administration even if it was factual and of national interest.
According to this theory the Hindu minority in Pakistan was to be given a fair deal in Pakistan in order to ensure the protection of the Muslim minority in India.
According to traditional Ayurvedic medicine, chewing betel leaf is a remedy against bad breath (halitosis).
Accordingly, mustard greens are also winter produce.
Acknowledging that Abraham was willing to sacrifice what was dear to him, God honoured both Abraham and his son.
Additional monuments from this period are associated with women from Aurangzeb's imperial family.
Additional rules are used in the Pro Kabaddi League to encourage scoring: when a defensive side has three or fewer players remaining, tackles are worth two points instead of one.
Additionally, Pakistan has shown quite a bit of improvement since 2006 for literacy and educational attainment for women (Moin et al., 2018).
Additionally, as this journal has stated later on, that it marks transgender individuals as "other" compared to cisgender individuals.
Additionally, he added four minarets on all four corners of the main hall, which are of 90 m (300 ft) high, the tallest minarets in South Asia.
Additionally, several thousand Punjabis gather in Lahore every year on International Mother Language Day.
Additionally, television channels in Punjab Province (centred on the Lahore area) are broadcast in Urdu.
Additionally, the NH&LH Division had compiled a directory of 320 Pakistani calligraphers, documenting their profiles and contributions.
Additionally, the PCB has confirmed that the stadium itself will undergo a name change following the conclusion of the tournament.
Additionally, there are paintings of various Nayika themes, including the Ashta-nayika (eight heroines).
Additionally, there is not a female university leader presence in the whole country.
Adherents of the Kalash religion number around 3,000 and inhabit three remote valleys in Chitral; Bumboret, Rumbur and Birir.
Adult women gather with paandani along with friends and relatives in leisure time.
Advanced Placement (or AP) is an alternative option, but it is much less common than GCE or IGCSE.
Advanced teacher apps revolutionize curriculum management by promoting data-driven learning.
Afghanistan, like Pakistan, has had small Sikh and Hindu populations.
Afghans start preparing for the Eid al-Fitr festival up to ten days prior by cleaning their homes (called Khana Takani in Dari).
Afridi had a quiet start to the tournament with the bat but responded strongly with match-winning half-centuries in the semi-final and final.
After 1947 Ahmed Hassan Dani and the Archaeology Department at the University of Peshawar made several discoveries in the Peshawar and Swat Valley.
After 1971, Bangladesh separated from Pakistan and the population of Hindus and other Non-Muslims declined in Pakistan as Bangladesh population was no longer part of the census conducted in Pakistan.
After 2003, it was replaced by the Pakistan Premier League.
After Al-Biruni, the Kashmiri writer Kalhaṇa wrote his book Rajatarangini in 1151.
After Amir, Asif and Butt were dismissed, Pakistan made Misbah ul Haq the new captain of Pakistan.
After British India gained independence from the British Raj, 5 million (based on 1941 &1951 Census) of West Pakistan's Hindus and Sikhs moved to India as refugees during the Partition.
After Eid dinner people love to sing and dance.
After General Zia-ul-Haq took power in a military coup, Hizb ut-Tahrir (an Islamist group calling for the establishment of a Caliphate) expanded its organisational network and activities in Pakistan.
After Independence, modern architectural styles like the International style became popular.
After Independence, the architecture of Pakistan is a blend of historic Islamic and various modern styles.
After India had won the First Test by an innings, Pakistan won the Second Test by an innings thanks to Fazal Mahmood who took 5–52 and 7–42.
After Karachi, Lahore is the second largest city.
After Pakistan gained independence from Britain on 14 August 1947, 4.7 million of the country's Hindus and Sikhs migrated to India.
After Pakistan gained independence from the British Raj, 5 million (based on 1941 &1951 Census) of West Pakistan's Hindus and Sikhs moved to India as refugees.
After Pakistan's first ever general elections the 1973 Constitution was created by an elected Parliament.
After Pakistan's victory, they moved up from 8th to 6th in the ICC ODI rankings.
After Sikhs began to progressively come into more and more contact with Europeans after 1830, the main influence on Punjabi Sikh art shifted from Pahari styles and methods to European ones.
After a huge loss against New Zealand, Pakistan defeated Zimbabwe by 7 wickets.
After a poor start to the run chase, Pakistan's skipper Misbah-ul-Haq made a useful contribution of 76 runs but Pakistan lost the match by 76 runs.
After a second round throughout the country, the district champions clubs would go through the third round at the provincial level, featuring top clubs of the federating units.
After beating Pakistan 1–0 in T20Is and 3–0 in ODIs, Pakistan were doubtful to win a two match Test series against the tourist.
After being demonstrated again at the 1982 Asian Games in Delhi, kabaddi was added to the Asian Games programme beginning in 1990.
After completion of the season in October 2004, PFF launched the second tier PFF League with 5 clubs with promotion and relegation.
After defeating Bangladesh in the 1st Test to meet Sri Lanka in the final, they were defeated by them by 8 wickets.
After failing to score off the first four balls – all short – Dilshan went for his scoop and mistimed it, resulting in him being caught at short fine-leg.
After having been liberalised in 2002, the television sector experienced a media boom.
After independence in 1947, there were only two major art schools in Pakistan - the Mayo School of Art and the Department of Fine Arts at the Punjab University.
After insurgency erupted in the Indian state of Punjab, the Pakistani government became more lenient when allowing Sikh pilgrims into the country.
After many deliberations and years of some modifications, the first set of the Constitution of Pakistan was enforced in the country on 23 March 1956.
After only two years of construction, the mosque was opened in 1673.
After partition, gurdwaras fell into disuse as Sikhs fled to India and left their ancestral homelands.
After paying the jizya, the Taliban assured the Sikhs they would protect them, leading to some Sikhs who had fled the region to return.
After pre-school education, students go through junior school from years 1 to 5.
After proofing, the dough becomes softer and more pliable.
After resignation of Shahid Afridi as test captain and suspension of Salman Butt due to spot-fixing scandal, Misbah was preferred over Younus Khan, Mohammad Yousuf and Kamran Akmal as captain.
After restoration, the temples will be reopened to Hindus in Pakistan.
After scouting for locations, he settled for their offices to be established at Ravi Road.
After the 16th century, the singing styles diversified into different gharanas patronized in different princely courts.
After the 2015 Cricket World Cup, Misbah-ul-Haq and Shahid Afridi ended their ODI careers.
After the Eid prayer, udhiyah, or the ritual sacrifice of cattle, is performed.
After the Islamic consolidation of Bengal was complete, some local features continued, especially in smaller buildings, but the Mughals used their usual style in imperial commissions.
After the World Cup ended, serious doubts were raised about the investigation, with increasing speculation that Woolmer died of natural causes.
After the conquest of Sindh by Muhammad bin Qasim and the loss of Raja Dahir, Islamization in Pakistan started and the population of Hindus started declining.
After the death of Firoz the Tughlaqs declined, and the following Delhi dynasties were weak.
After the demise of the Mughal Empire, the mosque was converted into a Sikh temple and renamed Moti Mandir during the period of the Sikh rule under Ranjit Singh's Sikh Confederacy.
After the eighteenth amendment was abolished in 2010, there was more autonomy available to people in the health care and education spectrums.
After the end of each of the school years, students are required to pass a national examination administered by a regional Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education (or BISE).
After the fall of the Mughal Empire, Lahore Fort was used as the residence of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, founder of the Sikh Empire.
After the fall of the Sikh empire, Urdu was made the official language of Punjab under the British (in Pakistani Punjab, it is still the primary official language) and influenced the language as well.
After the independence of Pakistan and the migration of nearly all Sikhs to India the Sikh community's rights were significantly diminished as their population decreased.
After the independence of Pakistan in 1947, the minority Hindus and Sikhs migrated to India while the Muslims refugees from India migrated to Pakistan.
After the parade, the President confers national awards and medals on the awardees at the Presidency.
After the partition of India and the formation of Pakistan in 1947, many Sikhs were forced to migrate to an independent India.
After the partition, Hindus have been converting to Islam under pressure, particularly in Doda village near Sargodha.
After the passage of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, the United States dramatically increased immigration from the subcontinent.
After the prayers, Iraqi Kurdish families would gather together for large breakfasts of rice and stew, as well as candies, nuts and caffeinated beverages.
After the salat, Muslims celebrate the Eid al-Fitr in various ways with food being a central theme, which also gives the holiday the nickname "Sweet Eid" or "Sugar Feast".
After the song ends, the adult of the home is expected to give snacks and money to the singing troupe of youngsters.
After the success of holding the final, the Pakistan Cricket Board decided to play two games of the 2018 Pakistan Super League in Pakistan.
After this, three takbirs are called out just before the ruku, each time raising hands to the ears and dropping them.
After victory against Zimbabwe Pakistan cemented their shot at playing the ICC CWC 2011 Quarters.
After winning the first Test, Misbah became Pakistan's most successful Test captain win 15 wins, taking over Imran Khan and Javed Miandad's joint 14 win record.
After winning the series against the West Indies 2–1 (3) in UAE, Pakistan toured New Zealand and Australia for two match and three match Test series.
After years of extensive renovation and restoration work, the fort and Shalimar Gardens were removed from the endangered list in June 2012.
Afterwards, children are given Eidi (cash gifts) and friends and relatives visit each other's homes to eat and celebrate.
Again, Fazal Mahmood was the chief destroyer, taking 13/114 in the match.
Against New Zealand, who toured Pakistan for 3 Test match series.
Against the South Africa cricket team in 2013 tour, they were badly whitewashed by the Proteas by 3–0 (3).
Agra Fort is a UNESCO World Heritage Site in Agra, Uttar Pradesh.
Agriculture has been the major economic feature of the Punjab and has therefore formed the foundation of Punjabi culture, with one's social status being determined by landownership.
Ahead of the T20I in Lahore, Cricket Sri Lanka's president Thilanga Sumathipala said that the team was privileged to be in Pakistan and that he would help support the country in hosting more tours.
Ahmadi Muslims believe in Muhammad as the final law-bearing prophet, but also believe Mirza Ghulam Ahmad to be a prophet, the prophecised Mehdi and second coming of Jesus.
Ahmadis argued to try to ensure that the city of Qadian, India would fall into the newly created state of Pakistan, though they were unsuccessful in doing so.
Ahsan Ramzan has set a new record for amateur snooker and became the 2nd youngest champion in the world after Chinese player Yan Bingtao at World Amateur Snooker Championships.
Ajrak (Sindhi: اجرڪ‎; Saraiki: اجرک) is a unique form of textile block-printing found primarily in Sindh, Pakistan and South Punjab in the case of Saraiki ajrak.
Ajrak craft products are made with natural dyes.
Ajrak has now become increasingly popular amongst block print enthusiasts.
Ajrak has predominantly been a craft using natural dyes, making it inherently expensive.
Ajrak is a distinctive Sindhi block-printed cloth.
Ajrak is a symbol of Sindhi culture and traditions.
Ajrak is commonly presented to guests and used at weddings and cultural events as a symbol of respect.
Ajrak is usually sold as long unstitched cloth for draping as shawls, dupattas or wraps varying in length and size.
Ajrak textiles like shawls or dresses display special designs and patterns made using block printing with stamps.
Akbar (r. 1556–1605) organized ice transport from Kashmir to Delhi, Agra, and Lahore via a 14-stage relay system, delivering ice in two days using saltpetre.
Akbar's greatest architectural achievement was the construction of Fatehpur Sikri, his capital city near Agra at a trade and Jain pilgrimages.
Akbar's son Jahangir commissioned the Shalimar Gardens in Kashmir.
Akbar's syncretic style is noted in the quadrangle, as it employs column brackets carved in the form of animals.
Akbar, who ruled in the 16th century, made major contributions to Mughal architecture.
Akbari Gate was built in 1566 and is now called Maseeti Gate.
Al-Fakihani believed that there was no basis for celebration in the Qur’an (it is never referred to), nor in the Sunnah, and that there was no observance of it on authority of scholars of the umma.
Al-Shabaab, the extremist group controlling parts of Somalia, banned samosas in 2011 over concerns about the possible use of rotten meat in the filling.
Al-Suyuti thought that the Mawlid could be based on the fact that Muhammad performed the sacrifice for his own birth after his calling to be a prophet.
Albanian Muslims generally celebrate the day as with most other countries.
Alexander gained control of the city without a battle since it immediately surrendered to his Macedonian Empire.
Ali Mardan Khan was responsible for most of the construction, and had a 100-mile-long canal built to bring water from the foothills of Kashmir to the site.
Ali Pur Ka Aeeli by Mumtaz Mufti is an autobiography narrating the account of bringing his family from Batala to Lahore.
Ali was also the driver of the A1GP Team Pakistan in 2006.
All Eid stamps to date show the work of Mohamed Zakariya.
All consonants except /h j ɳ ɽ/ can be geminated ("doubled").
All districts with a Hindu population greater than 1%, according to the 2017 census.
All famous writers of Urdu language including Ghalib and Iqbal were given British scholarships.
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.
All in all, in the future, these LCPSs may be able to reach more and more of the marginalized groups of people.
All natural elements of the bagh are appreciated - including the sun, moon, and air.
All of the main dishes (except those made with rice) are eaten alongside bread.
All of them are non-alcoholic as the consumption of alcohol is prohibited by Islam.
All of these are in Sindh except the Rahim Yar Khan District in Punjab.
All of these groups speak Sindhi and follow Islam.
All of this pollution lowers the river water quality, causes eutrophication, reducing the amount of habitat.
All players in the league must be strictly under 85 kg (187 lb) in weight.
All players tagged or tackled are taken out of the game, but one is "revived" for each point a team scores from a subsequent tag or tackle.
All residents in these areas, regardless of religion, are entitled to either a one-day or three-day official holiday.
All the decisions related to this custom are made by a single individual called jirga, who heads the tribal court.
All the houses had access to water and drainage facilities.
All the people in those parts of the world use it, for it is very cooling to the heart, and if they ceased to use it they would die.
All the shalwars are tied at waist by Agath (drawstring) which is made of different bright colours heavily ornated and embellished with shiny metallic threads, beads, mirrors etc.
All these features also have influenced Mughal architecture.
All these languages are called Prakrit languages (Sanskrit: प्राकृत, prākṛta) collectively.
All these options are normally intricately embroidered, and are moderately popular with Indian brides too.
All three of these starred Gul Hamid in the lead role, and had similar supporting casts.
All three of these tournaments were held in India and were won by India, and all had Iran as runner-up.
Allah willing, you will find me steadfast.
Allocations for education should not be affected by squeezed fiscal space or surge in military expenditure or debts.
Allophones of stops in postvocalic position include for voiceless stops, [f θ x] and for voiced stops [β ð ɣ].
Allāhu Akbar, Allāhu Akbar, Allāhu Akbar.
Almost all Qawwalis are based on a Raga from the Hindustani classical music tradition.
Almost all Sindhi noun stems end in a vowel, except for some recent loanwords.
Almost all cities and villages in Pakistan have their own cricket teams and unofficial tournaments.
Almost all ghazals confine themselves to less than fifteen couplets (poems that exceed this length are more accurately considered as qasidas).
Almost every Pakistani state has a regional party devoted solely to the culture of the native people.
Almost every paan-producing district has its own special variety of betel leaf of which consumers are well acquainted.
Almost one-third of universities in Balochistan do not have professors in their teacher education departments and there was not a PhD in education at any of the universities in Balochistan.
Along with Arabic, Urdu is among the immigrant languages with the most speakers in Catalonia.
Along with the discovery of coins, these records provided clues necessary to piece together the history of Gandhara.
Along with these new foldable chairs were added to some of the stands.
Alongside Geo Films, the "Pakistan New Cinema Movement" was launched in 2009 with around 1400 members which facilitated networking to stimulate newer film productions.
Aloo mutter is made with potatoes and peas.
Also 7 universities of Pakistan were ranked among top 1000 QS Asia University rankings 2018.
Also according to the 1998 census, 12.8 million of those, or 92%, lived in the province of Punjab.
Also as one of the five official languages of Jammu and Kashmir.
Also in Srinagar are the Aali Masjid and the Tomb of Zain-ul-Abidin.
Also in qawwali, there is no distinction between what is known as the chest voice and the head voice (the different areas that sound will resonate in depending on the frequency sung).
Also in the same match, Misbah equaled the then fastest Test match century off 56 deliveries.
Also located near the mosque's entrance is the tomb of Sir Sikandar Hayat Khan, who is credited for playing a major role in preservation and restoration of the mosque.
Also on display are pictures of shrines of Data Ganj Bakhsh, Shah Rukne Alam, and Bahauddin Zakariya.
Also the Scheduled Caste may not include all Hindu scheduled castes, like Jogi community which are not formally listed as Scheduled Caste in Pakistan.
Also there are two kinds of jamuns that are famous.
Also, according to a more recent summary by Maisels (2003), "The Harappan oecumene formed from a Kot Dijian/Amri-Nal synthesis".
Also, because of the PHF's poor economy, there were two years without any international matches between 2019 and 2021.
Also, generally in Tunisia, people usually prepare Assidat Zgougou to celebrate the Mawlid.
Also, in Balochistan Hindu places of worship are proportionate to their population.
Altaf Memom estimates that 90,000 have been displaced and about 120 villages have been depopulated.
Alternative qualifications in Pakistan are available but these are maintained by other examination boards instead of BISE.
Alternatively, the name may be derived from chappal, the Indic word for sandals – relating the average shape and size of a kebab to that of a chappal sole.
Alternatively, the samosa can be eaten on its own with chutney on the side.
Alternatives like "South Asian" or "Brown" have been proposed, but they also have their limitations and can be perceived as misleading or exclusive.
Alternatives such as charitable donations or fasting have been suggested to be permissible by several fuqaha.
Although 'paan' has been a staple Bengali custom for ages, a number of high-end stores with premium quality paan has become available in recent times.
Although Eid al-Fitr is not a recognized public holiday in the United Kingdom, many schools, businesses, and organisations allow for at least a day's leave to be taken for religious celebrations.
Although Hindustani music clearly is focused on vocal performance, instrumental forms have existed since ancient times.
Although Kashmiri was traditionally written in the Sharda script, it is not in common use today, except for religious ceremonies of the Kashmiri Pandits.
Although Muslim governments were unsympathetic with Pakistan's pan-Islamic aspirations, Islamists from all over the world were drawn to Pakistan.
Although Pakistani rowers take part in events, it is considered a minority sport.
Although Sikhs form a small community in Pakistan today, Sikhism has an extensive heritage and history in the country.
Although a bill for increasing minorities' seats was introduced by Ramesh Kumar Vankwani, it was not passed.
Although a light ban had existed since 1952 in West Pakistan and since 1962 in East Pakistan, this was enforced more strictly in the war's aftermath.
Although accounts of kabaddi are found in ancient India, the game was popularised as a competitive sport in the 20th century.
Although constructed between 16th and 18th centuries, they do not possess any similarity to Mughal architecture.
Although copper and bronze were in use, iron was not yet employed.
Although he became famous outside of Egypt, he was caught in conflicts in Egypt his entire life.
Although it is a form of folk music, it is typically performed by professional musicians.
Although it is a generic term for any day of birth, Mawlid usually refers to the observance of the birthday of Muhammad.
Although its tarannum saaz (singing aspect) has undergone major changes in recent decades, its popularity among the masses remains unaltered.
Although many of the teachers rejected the evolution of humans, " all agreed that there is 'no contradiction between science and Islam' in general".
Although modern Harappa has a legacy railway station from the Raj period, it is a small crossroads town of 15,000 people today.
Although most of the serials are produced in Urdu, an increasing number of them are produced in other Pakistani languages such as Sindhi, Pashto, Punjabi and Balochi.
Although not as ubiquitous as in the Terai, most residents of Kathmandu occasionally enjoy paan.
Although officially supporting the use of Pashto, the Afghan elite regarded Persian as a "sophisticated language and a symbol of cultured upbringing".
Although some buildings built during his era were made of red sandstone, such as the Red Fort in Delhi, he preferred to use white marble for his private quarters.
Although some houses were larger than others, Indus civilisation cities were remarkable for their apparent, if relative, egalitarianism.
Although sometimes criticise for being unprofessional and politically biased, the television channels have made a great contribution to the media landscape and to Pakistani society.
Although the citadels were walled, it is far from clear that these structures were defensive; many may have been flood defenses.
Although the dish varies from region to region, it optionally includes wheat or barley, meat and lentils.
Although the radio sector has not seen similar growth, independent radio channels are numerous and considered very important sources of information - especially in the rural areas.
Although there is reservation of seats for women in Pakistan National Assembly, not a single seat was allotted for non-Muslim women till 2018.
Although used more often on women's fashion, some men's clothing have been inspired by South Asian truck art.
Amina Wali is a alpine skier and she remained national champion for 15 years.
Amir Khan, the professional British boxing world champion of Pakistani descent was the guest in the final rounds of tournament.
Amir Khusrau is sometimes credited with the origins of the khyal form, but the record of his compositions does not appear to support this.
Amir Khusrau was the first person to use the same word for Poetry.
Among Muslim scholars, the legality of Mawlid "has been the subject of intense debate" and has been described as "perhaps one of the most polemical discussions in Islamic law".
Among Sunni Muslims, the Hanafi school of jurisprudence is followed by the majority while a minority belongs to the Ahl-i Hadith tradition which rejects imitation of the four schools.
Among bowed instruments, the sarangi and violin are popular.
Among his accomplishments were Agra Fort, the fort-city of Fatehpur Sikri, and the Buland Darwaza.
Among non-Muslim countries, India is noted for its Mawlid festivities.
Among non-diasporic South Asians, the term Desi is sometimes used to indicate that a person is rural, unexposed to foreign/modern culture, and more deeply steeped in native South Asian culture.
Among other criticisms the Pakistani education system faces is the gender disparity in enrollment levels.
Among scholars who favour the latter chronology, it remains an open question for debate, what kind of relationship Pukkusāti historically had with the Persian Achaemenid rulers.
Among some sections of the Sindhi community, the festival is traditionally celebrated as Lal Loi.
Among the artefacts discovered were beautiful glazed faïence beads.
Among the modern day Indo-Aryan languages still spoken today, Torwali shows the closest linguistic affinity possible to Niya, a dialect of Gāndhārī.
Among the most popular Balochi dishes are Balochi sajji (skewered lamb or chicken stuffed with rice), mutton rosh (mutton chops) and dampukht (meat slow-cooked in its own fats).
Among these 11 temples are in Sindh, four in Punjab, three in Balochistan and two in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Among these Avicennia marina constitutes 99% of the mangrove population.
Among these influences was harees, a meat and wheat porridge widely consumed in the Arab world.
Among those are visible projects, like the MagnifiScience Centre in Karachi.
Among those he saved were two girls Sundri and Mundri, who gradually became a theme of Punjabi folklore.
Among those institutions can be found vocational schools, technical training centres and agriculture and vocational training centres.
Amongst Pashtuns, a part of their traditional pre-Islamic culture is the Attan, a war dance.
Amongst the Ghilji tribes of Pashtuns, an ancient tradition exists, the Sheen Khaal, which is regarded as a sign of beauty for women.
Amongst the first settlers of course were the Arabs who came with trade convoys, or with the armies of Mohammad Bin Qasim, and found a footing in Sind.
An Urdu-Persian dictionary was written by Khan-i Arzu in 1751 in the reign of Ahmad Shah Bahadur.
An additional 90 marks are allotted for practicals (30 for each science).
An alternative hypothesis is that Sarākī originated in the word sauvīrā, or Sauvira, an ancient kingdom which was also mentioned in the Sanskrit epic Mahabharata.
An alternative local name for this language group is Hindki.
An anecdotal government survey indicated that 40% of men and 20% of women in Myanmar chew betel.
An apprenticeship system is also framed by the state of Pakistan.
An aspect of this arrangement was the additional requirement to hand over to the Company any historical artifacts acquired during his travels.
An attached string sewn around the base provides adaptability, allowing the wearer to secure the cap by tightening or loosening it as needed.
An early European description of betel chewing is from the Magellan Expedition to the Philippines in 1521.
An early literary tradition of Hindavi was founded by Amir Khusrau in the late 13th century, who has been called "the father of Urdu literature".
An elaborate betel chew or paan would contain fragrant spices and rose preserves with chopped areca nuts.
An example is Henry Lawrence, who painted local residents of various walks of life.
An example is the youthful Buddha, his hair in wavy curls, similar to statutes of Apollo.
An example of Buddhist architecture is the ruins of the Buddhist monastery Takht-i-Bahi in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
An example of a type of mural scene derived from it is Radha being surrounded by youthful gopis.
An example of this is his mosque at Panipat.
An extensive canal network, used for irrigation, has however also been discovered by H.-P. Francfort.
An ideogram in the IVC contains the earliest known depiction of an arched harp, dated sometime before 1800 BCE.
An initial agreement to fund restoration was agreed through the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in Paris on 27 May 1980.
An international governing body called the International Kabaddi Federation (IKF) has been established for the sport.
An inverted karahi is used to cook rumali rotis.
An isolated dialect is Koroshi, which is spoken in the Qashqai tribal confederation in the Fars province.
An nationwide inter-city franchise T20 tournament, the Pakistan Super League, was inaugurated in 2016.
An older variety of shalwar kameez of the Punjab region is the Punjabi suthan and kurta suit.
Analysts such as M. M. Sharif and Zafar Hassan established the first major Pakistani philosophical movement in 1947.
Anarkalis are also an option, imitating gowns.
Anas ibn Malik, a companion of Muhammad, narrated that when Muhammad arrived in Medina, he found people celebrating two specific days in which they entertained themselves with recreation.
Ancient bricks found throughout the region have dimensions that correspond to these units.
Ancient people lit the bonfire to reignite the return of longer days.
And I, Shahid, only am escaped to tell thee– God sobs in my arms.
And a new ministry Ministry for National Harmony was formed for the protection of the rights of the minorities in Pakistan.
And elders give them a small amount of money which is known as "Salami" or "Eidi", which is a major part of Eid happiness for children.
And when England toured UAE for three match Test series, Pakistan defeated them 2–0 (3).
Angels directing djinns are also painted on tiles in the ceiling, which also reference King Solomon.
Anita Karim is the first international female Mixed Martial Arts fighter from Pakistan to win multiple national and international-level bouts.
Anjuman quit from playback signing, Sultan Rahi was murdered in 1996, director Sangeeta put her career on hold to attended to family life while Nazrul Islam died.
Annemarie Schimmel also says that the tendency to celebrate the memory of Muhammad's day of birth on a larger and more festive scale emerged first in Egypt during the Fatimids.
Annual biryani festivals have been held in cities such as Ambur, Islamabad and Karachi.
Another Indian objective was to capture the Lahore Cantonment.
Another Pakistani snack food, popular in Punjab, is known as samosa chaat.
Another Quranist movement in Pakistan is Ahlu Zikr.
Another common headwear of Pashtun men is the Pakol hat, which is a soft rolled up flat wool hat, that is worn on the head and worn like a beret.
Another common type of Punjabi shalwar kameez is the Patiala salwar which has many folds and originates in the city of Patiala.
Another consequence of the 2002 regulations was that most of these were hurriedly enacted by President Musharraf before the new government took office.
Another distinguishing characteristic was the use of red sandstone as a building material, along with white marble.
Another early producer was Roop K. Shorey, who, upon hearing of Lahore's growing film industry, returned to his hometown and produced Qismat Ke Haer Pher (Life After Death) in 1932.
Another example is the conversion of 250 Hindus to Islam in Chohar Jamali area in Thatta.
Another greatest performance from Pakistan is when they whitewashed the touring Australian cricket team.
Another issue is the process of license issuance and revocation, with claims of arbitrariness.
Another kabaddi organisation named the World Kabaddi Federation was founded in 2003 and formally incorporated in 2005.
Another main criticism is the number of games played over a short period of time.
Another moment for Pakistan under Misbah was when Pakistan toured Sri Lanka and defeated them in three match Test series.
Another mosque was built during his tenure in Lahore called Wazir Khan Mosque, by Wazir Khan who was the court physician to the emperor.
Another naming method is based on actual or perceived characteristics of its inhabitants.
Another point of weakness education in Pakistan faces is relevance in content.
Another popular act of the 1980s was the pop and rock band Vital Signs, with Junaid Jamshed as the vocalist and Rohail Hyatt as the keyboardist.
Another prominent Jain monk of the region was Vijayanandsuri of Gujranwala, whose samadhi (memorial shrine) still stands in the city.
Another rising star during this period was Nadeem Baig, who received instant stardom with his debut film Chakori in 1967.
Another style of the Punjabi suit is the use of the shalwar which hails from the Pothohar region of Punjab, Pakistan, and is known as the Pothohari shalwar.
Another temple at Rawal Dam in Islamabad has been shut down and the Hindu community believes that the temple is going to dilapidate day by day without being handed over to them.
Another town of this stage was found at Kalibangan in India on the Hakra River.
Another two scripts, Khudabadi and Shikarpuri, were reforms of the Landa script.
Another type of education in Pakistan is called "Technical Education" and combines technical and vocational education.
Another vocal form, taranas are medium- to fast-paced songs that are used to convey a mood of elation and are usually performed towards the end of a concert.
Antonio Pigafetta describes the practice of betel nut chewing among the natives of the Rajahnate of Butuan.
Any sharing of political power with the Hindus was considered dangerous and the first step towards the political abdication of the Indian Muslims.
Anyone who wishes to meet us should come here'.
Apart from clothing, truck art has also been incorporated into shoes by some.
Apart from the movement towards brevity, this period also saw two significant and lasting changes to the ghazal form.
Apart from the traditional fashion show, Bridal couture Week day 1 included a dance performance by Fia which was much appreciated by everyone.
Apart from tombs, Ranikot Fort and Kot Diji Fort are also a good example of Sindhi architecture.
Apparently at some time the people of Chitral and adjoining regions started to include an extra round piece of material to form a flat crown.
Approximately 130 million people speak the Punjabi language.
Approximately 4.7 million Hindus and Sikhs moved to India while 6.5 million Muslims settled in Pakistan.
Approximately 65% of Pakistan's Islamic seminaries are affiliated with the Deobandi school, compared to 25% associated with the Barelvi tradition.
Approximately 65% of Pakistan's Islamic seminaries are affiliated with the Deobandis, compared to 25% associated with the Barelvis.
Arabic is mentioned in the constitution of Pakistan.
Arabic is taught as a religious language in mosques, schools, colleges, universities and madrassahs.
Arabic is used as a religious language by Muslims.
Arabic sources thus do mention the language of Sindh in various instances.
Archaeological evidence also establishes dynastic affiliations between them and the rulers of Oddiyana in modern-day Swat.
Archaeological excavations indicate that the decline of Harappa drove people eastward.
Archaeological excavations show that the city may have grown significantly during the rule of the Persian Achaemenid Empire in the 6th century BCE.
Archaeological records provide no immediate answers for the question of who ruled Harappan cities and how.
Archaeological work in Harappa thereafter lagged until a new viceroy of India, Lord Curzon, pushed through the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act 1904, and appointed John Marshall to lead the ASI.
Archaeologist John Marshall excavated at Taxila between 1912 and 1934.
Archaeologists excavated numerous Bronze Age cities, among them are Mohenjo Daro, Harrappa and Kot Diji from the 3rd millennium BCE.
Archeological evidence indicates the use of simple rattles and vessel flutes, while iconographical evidence suggests early harps and drums were also used.
Archeological remains from 2000 to 3000 BC have been found from the city of Lothal of pieces on a board that resemble chess.
Archery competitions are also a regular part of the National Games.
Architecture of province of Sindh is greatly influenced from its neighbouring regions of Gujarat and Punjab, as well as broader Indo-Islamic architecture.
Arcot, a town near Vellore, is renowned for a local pastry known as Makkan Peda or Arcot Makkan Peda.
Areca nut chewing starts the talk between the groom's parents and the bride's parents about the young couple's marriage.
Areca palms have been grown traditionally in Guam, Palau, and Yap since ancient times.
Arfa Abdul Karim Randhawa was a Pakistani student and computer prodigy who, in 2004 at the age of nine, became the youngest Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP).
Arfa represented Pakistan on various international forums including the TechEd Developers Conference.
Aridification reduced the water supply enough to cause the civilisation's demise, and scatter its population eastward.
Armies would prepare a one-pot dish of rice with any available red meat.
Around 1900 BCE signs of a gradual decline began to emerge, and by around 1700 BCE most of the cities had been abandoned.
Around 1900, Vishnu Narayan Bhatkhande consolidated the musical structures of Hindustani classical music, called ragas, into a few thaats based on their notes.
Around 3,000 Mawlid celebrations are held each year.
Around 430 King Khingila, the most notable Alchon ruler, emerged and took control of the routes across the Hindu Kush from the Kidarites.
Around 6500 BCE, agriculture emerged in Balochistan, on the margins of the Indus alluvium.
Around 75 percent of Pakistan's Christians are rural Punjabi Christians, while some speak Sindhi and Gujarati, with the remainder being the upper and middle class Goan Christians and Anglo-Indians.
Around 800 CCTV cameras and several elevators were also installed.
Around the 12th-century, Hindustani classical music diverged from what eventually came to be identified as Carnatic classical music.
Around the world, different traditions are followed on Eid al-Adha.
Arrian documented their implementation of a scorched earth strategy, evidenced by the city ablaze upon Alexander's arrival, with its inhabitants already fleeing.
Arrian writes that Alexander was welcomed by the citizens of the city, and he offered sacrifices and celebrated a gymnastic and equestrian contest there.
Arthrocnemum macrostachyum is also found growing in the delta.
Arthur Jeffery contested this etymology, and believed the term to have been borrowed into Arabic from Syriac, or less likely Targumic Aramaic.
Arthur Jeffery recognizes the same Semitic root, but believes the sense of the term to have entered Arabic through Aramaic.
Article 25-A of the Constitution of Pakistan makes it obligatory for the state to provide free and compulsory quality education to children in the age group 5 to 16 years.
Artists such as Dalptaram, Mirabai, Brahmanand Swami and Premanand Swami revitalized classical Hindustani music in the 16-18th century.
Artists such as Haider Ali have also decorated non-traditional surfaces, including shipping containers and aircraft.
As Gilgit itself is a blend of cultures from neighboring districts like Hunza, Ghizer and Chilas, the cuisines of these regions is also widely found here.
As Hindi separated from Hindustani to create a distinct spiritual identity, Urdu was employed to create a definitive Islamic identity for the Muslim population in India.
As Khan was largely credited for extensive restorations to the mosque, he was buried adjacent to the mosque in the Hazuri Bagh.
As Punjabi Christians are mainly Dalit Christians, descendants of lower-caste Hindus who converted during the colonial era in India.
As Urdu and Hindi became means of religious and social construction for Muslims and Hindus respectively, each register developed its own script.
As a gateway to the west, and Persia in particular, Lahore had a strong regional style which was heavily influenced by Persian architectural styles.
As a literary language, Urdu took shape in courtly, elite settings.
As a part of Lohri celebrations, children go around homes singing the traditional folk songs of Lohri with the "Dulla Bhatti" name included.
As a result of religious nationalism since the partition of British India and continued communal tensions, native speakers of both Hindi and Urdu frequently assert that they are distinct languages.
As a result of resource degradation, a large exodus of people has taken place from the Indus delta.
As a result, Pakistan concluded their 2015 season rankings as 4th in Tests, 8th in ODIs, and 2nd in T20Is.
As a result, Pakistan were knocked out of the tournament.
As a result, a brand-new genre of Punjabi music emerged, fusing contemporary beats and production methods with traditional instruments and melodies.
As a result, around 7.3 million Hindus and Sikhs moved to India and 7.2 million Muslims moved to Pakistan permanently, leading to demographic change of both the nations to a certain extent.
As a result, haleem in South Asia became spicier and more aromatic than its Arab counterpart, developing into a unique dish that reflected the regional palate.
As a result, the 2010 Pakistan floods were considered "good news" for the ecosystem and population of the river delta as they brought much needed fresh water.
As a result, the Ganges Valley settlement gained prominence and Ganges' cities developed.
As a result, the National Stadium had to wait for few more days to host an ODI match.
As a result, the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) rescheduled the second ODI match, moving it back one day to 30 September 2019, to allow the ground staff more time to prepare the outfield.
As a result, the captaincy of the ODI team was given to newcomer Azhar Ali.
As a result, they climbed to No.2 in Test rankings, also after 9 years.
As a result, violence-ridden Punjabi films prevailed and overshadowed Urdu cinema.
As a substitute many women now use Sheen Khaal temporarily with henna, on special occasions (e.g., weddings).
As a symbol of the mosque's importance, it was built directly across from the Lahore Fort and its Alamgiri Gate, which was concurrently built by Aurangzeb during construction of the mosque.
As always the Pakistan Cricket Board logo is placed on the left chest.
As an Iranian language, it is classified in the Northwestern group.
As an initial pilot effort, the betel year is a starting point, with further studies needed to explore the carcinogenic potential of other additives globally and refine the metric for wider use.
As an obligatory act of charity, money is paid to the poor and the needy (zakat al-Fitr) before performing the 'Eid prayer.
As black and white films became obsolete, colour films such as Munshi Dil's Azra in 1962, Zahir Raihan's Sangam (first full-length coloured film) in 1964, and Mala (first coloured cinema-scope film).
As cinema viewership increased, the industry found more success.
As early as the 8th century, Arab conquerors conquered the southern part of present-day Pakistan.
As evidence, he cited a group of 37 skeletons found in various parts of Mohenjo-daro, and passages in the Vedas referring to battles and forts.
As he stacked them, he was shocked to see the number grow exponentially.
As increasing numbers of students from the subcontinent arrived in the US and UK, their countries of origin were colloquially referred to as deś.
As it comes after a month of fasting, sweet dishes and foods are often prepared and consumed during the celebration.
As it is chewed, the peppery taste is savoured, along with the warm feeling and alertness it gives, similar to drinking a fresh cup of coffee.
As much as 85–90% of Pakistanis follows Sunni Islam.
As noted by Josef Elfenbein, "Loanwords have been traced in Pashto as far back as the third century B.C., and include words from Greek and probably Old Persian".
As of 1977, about 90% of the Indus script seals and inscribed objects discovered were found at sites in Pakistan along the Indus river, while other sites accounts only for the remaining 10%.
As of 2003, fishing was an important source of revenue.
As of 2007, the mangroves of the Indus delta are the largest desert climate mangrove forests in the world.
As of 2007[update], public expenditure on education was 2.2 percent of GNPs, a marginal increase from 2 percent before 1984–85.
As of 2008, about 616 sites have been reported in India, whereas 406 sites have been reported in Pakistan.
As of 2009, Pakistan faces a net primary school attendance rate for both sexes of 66%, a figure below estimated world average of 90 per cent.
As of 2016, AJ Sports returned as the kit manufacturer of Pakistan.
As of 2016[update] many scholars believe that drought, and a decline in trade with Egypt and Mesopotamia, caused the collapse of the Indus civilisation.
As of 2017[update] some Pakistanis are learning Mandarin to do business with companies from the People's Republic of China.
As of 2019, Pakistan is sponsored by AJ Sports, replacing CA Sports, which was the sponsor between 2015 and 2019.
As of 2020, Pakistan has the fourth largest Hindu population in the world after India, Nepal and Bangladesh.
As of 2022[update] Pakistan's literacy rates range from 96% in Islamabad to 23% in the Torghar District.
As of December 2019[update], 240 ODIs had been played at the ground.
As of December 2022 the team is ranked 16th in the world.
As of July 2023 however, few departments reportedly remained active in football, and since then became restricted to the PFF National Challenge Cup.
As of the 2023 Census, Pakistan currently hosts 5.2 million Hindus, making it the world's fifth-largest Hindu population.
As of the 2023 Census, there are 14 districts within Pakistan which have literacy rates at 75% or above.
As one of the largest forts in India, it served as the official residence of the emperor for nearly 200 years.
As part of the efforts, it announced that an exhibition on the Buddhist heritage of the region would be held in Thailand, and that the Thai government would assist in conservation efforts at the site.
As per 2017 Census of Pakistan, the country has a population of 207,684,000.The CCI approved the release of provisional population figures of 207.754 million people.
As per Buddhist tradition, a monk from Varanasi in India called Majjhantika is held to be the first monk to travel to Kashmir and Gandhara to spread Buddhism under the orders of Ashoka.
As per Pali sources, Buddhism first reached Gandhara following the Third Buddhist council which was held in Pataliputra during the reign of Ashoka in the third-century BCE.
As per canonical Śvetāmbara Jaina texts Āvaśyaka Cūrṇi and Āvaśyaka Niryukti, Tirthankara Rishabhanatha visited Takshashila while wandering after initiation as a monk millions of years ago.
As per the data from the Election Commission of Pakistan, as of 2018 there were a total of 1.77 million Hindu voters.
As political uncertainty took charge of the entertainment industry, filmmakers were asked to consider the socio-political impacts of their films.
As six players make up one side, the field can get fairly crowded.
As some digests cater to current events, but a large number of them used to publish pulp fiction.
As such, they are typically not served to guests who are invited for dinner or during special occasions.
As the Mughal Empire came into closer contact with Hindus, especially under Jalal ud-Din Akbar, music and dance also flourished.
As the Muslim population is diverse, traditional festive dishes differ between regions – for example in Tatarstan pancakes are popularly baked.
As the War in North-West Pakistan continued, there have been frequent threats against journalists.
As the exact day of Eid ul-Fitr is dependent on the moon sighting, Chaand Raat is often considered more festive on Eid ul-Fitr than Eid ul-Adha, which is known well in advance.
As the founder of Samar Camp, she promotes adventure sports and women's empowerment in Pakistan.
As the global popularity of football surged, the sport’s standing in Pakistan deteriorated.
As the monsoons kept shifting south, the floods grew too erratic for sustainable agricultural activities.
As the security situation improved, in September 2019, international test cricket returned to Pakistan with the visit of Sri Lanka.
As they did each farming activity they would perform bhangra moves on the spot.
As with Eid al-Fitr, the Eid prayer is performed on the morning of Eid al-Adha, after which the udhiyah or the ritual sacrifice of a livestock animal, is performed.
As with movable do solfege, the notes are heard relative to an arbitrary tonic that varies from performance to performance, rather than to fixed frequencies, as on a xylophone.
Ashoka's embrace of Buddhism and sponsorship of Buddhist missionaries allowed for the expansion of that faith into Sri Lanka, Northwestern India, and Central Asia.
Aspirated (breathy voiced) implosives occur word-initially, where they contrast with aspirated plain stops: /ɓʰɛ(h)/ 'sit' ~ /bʰɛ/ 'fear'.
Assistant coach Mushtaq Ahmed acted as temporary coach for the team's final group game of the tournament.
Association football is the second-most played sport in Pakistan and it is organised and regulated by the Pakistan Football Federation.
Assyrians and other Middle Eastern Christians use the term to mean the Eucharistic host.
At Ajmer the smaller screen arches are tentatively cusped, for the first time in India.
At North India, there is a tradition to chew paan after Deepawali puja for blessings.
At Skoolify, we are committed to making a positive impact on the world by focusing on Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) targets.
At a phonological level, speakers of both languages are frequently aware of the Perso-Arabic or Sanskrit origins of their word choice, which affects the pronunciation of those words.
At federal level, a Hindu Marriage Bill was proposed in 2016, which was unanimously approved by the National Assembly of Pakistan in 2016 and by the Senate of Pakistan in 2017.
At home, women and girls decorate their hands with mehndi.
At iftar, they had popular song to be played that called fasil music along with some instruments such as tambourine and flute.
At independence, Pakistan had radio stations in Dhaka, Lahore, and Peshawar.
At its zenith, the Rai dynasty (489–632 CE) of Sindh ruled this region and the surrounding territories.
At least 75% of the population in the active delta depend on the fishing industry.
At night, multiple campfires are set around houses, sometimes to the point that entire valleys may initially appear to be engulfed in flame.
At one point, the Kidarites withdrew from Gandhara, and the Alchons took over their mints from the time of Khingila.
At present Prem Kumar Mallick, Prashant and Nishant Mallick are the Dhrupad vocalists of this tradition.
At present, its decorations have vanished except for a trace of the marble which once might have beautified the façade.
At present, these forms continue to coexist, albeit to varying degrees, with Azad Nazm having an edge over them all.
At present, this variety is becoming extinct, due to emergence of more profitable and lucrative fast-growing varieties of paan crops.
At that time the pakol again gained popularity, while the Pashtuns from the south and southeast of the country, who used to form the core of the Taliban movement, still preferred to wear a turban.
At that time, Karachi was the capital of Pakistan, but the only cricket ground was the one at the Karachi Gymkhana which had limited seating capacity.
At the 1992 World Cup Semi-final, having won the toss, New Zealand chose to bat first and ended with a total of 262 runs.
At the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, Shah narrowly lost to Scotland's Euan Burton in the -100 kg division finals, securing a silver medal.
At the Asian Games held in Jakarta, Indonesia in 2018, Nargis Hameedullah became the first Pakistani woman to win an individual medal (a bronze) at the Asian Games.
At the Rani Mahal of erstwhile Nabha State, there are wall paintings of couples having sex in various positions, settings, and emotions based upon the Koka Shastra treatise.
At the college level, it was 0.50 in 1990–91 and reached 0.81 in 1999–2000, showing that the disparity decreased by 64%.
At the conclusion of the prayers and sermon, Muslims embrace and exchange gifts and greetings with one another, such as the phrase Eid Mubarak.
At the end of each season, the club with the most points is crowned as PPL Champion.
At the end of the season, the two worst teams are relegated directly to the PFF League, while the top two teams in the PFF League are promoted to the PPL.
At the federal level, Punjabi has official status via the Eighth Schedule to the Indian Constitution, earned after the Punjabi Suba movement of the 1950s.
At the post-secondary level, there has been much research conducted about the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats when practicing distance learning.
At the royal house of Gwalior, Raja Mansingh Tomar (1486–1516 CE) also participated in the shift from Sanskrit to the local idiom (Hindi) as the language for classical songs.
At the same time in its phonology it is radically different.
At the same time, music serves as a powerful tool for activism and resistance.
At the same time, the Ochre Coloured Pottery culture expanded from Rajasthan into the Gangetic Plain.
At the same time, there is a need to debate others options about how Pakistan can "invent" the miracle of raising education expenditure to 7 percent of GDP by 2015.
At the same year, they also got their second defeat to Zimbabwe when Pakistan toured for two match Test series.
At the start of the 1990s, Pakistan's film industry was gripped with certain doom.
At the state level, Punjabi is the sole official language of the state of Punjab, while it has secondary official status in the states of Haryana and Delhi.
At the time of Pakistan’s creation, the “hostage theory” had been espoused.
At the time of independence of Pakistan in 1947, Karachi and Lahore were home to a thriving Parsi business community.
At the time of its release, it became the highest-grossing Pakistani film ever.
At the time when Pali was the primary language for Buddhist literature in the rest of India, all the Buddhist literature produced in Kashmir was in Sanskrit.
Ataullah Khan Esakhelvi and Shafaullah Rokhri are considered legends of Saraiki music and the most popular singers from the Saraiki belt.
Ataullah Khan Esakhelvi and Shafaullah Rokhri are considered the main singers of Saraiki music.
Atta-ur-Rahman is a Pakistani scientist known for his work in the field of natural product chemistry.
Attacks on Shias increased under the presidency of Zia-ul-Haq, with the first major sectarian riots in Pakistan breaking out in 1983 in Karachi and later spreading to other parts of the country.
Audio and video cassettes, CDs, VCDs and DVDs produced by Lok Virsa are available in the market.
Aurangzeb chose an architectural plan similar to that of Shah Jahan's choice for the Jama Masjid in Delhi, though he built the Badshahi Mosque on a much larger scale.
Aurangzeb's mosque's architectural plan is similar to that of his father, Shah Jahan, the Jama Masjid in Delhi; though it is much larger.
Aurangzeb's sister Roshan-Ara who died in 1671.
Australia had a fierce going with 33 ball 74 runs by Glenn Maxwell, but only managed to score 175.
Australia had a good start, where Michael Hussey scored a match winning unbeaten 64 runs from just 24 balls.
Australia scored 197/7 in 19.5 overs and won the match.
Australia started steadily but wickets regularly fell during the middle overs.
Australia won the first two matches and drew the third.
Australia won the match by 7 wickets, with Richie Benaud and Alan Davidson playing key roles.
Australian Muslims celebrate Eid al-Fitr in a variety of ways depending on their specific cultural background.
Average temperatures for the delta region range from 21 to 30 °C (70 to 86 °F) in July, and 10–21 °C (50–70 °F) in January.
Ayub Ommaya was a Pakistani neurosurgeon who heavily contributed to his field.
BS Saraiki is also being offered by English department of Ghazi University, Dera Ghazi Khan and MA Saraiki is being offered by Gomal University, Dera Ismail Khan privately.
Baad (dispute resolution) is an "unlawful marriage custom" found in its Harnai district that is used to make settlements between two enemies.
Babur himself was initially buried at Agra, but in 1644 his tomb was moved to one of his favourite gardens in Kabul, now known as the Gardens of Babur.
Badala, is an epic poem set to music and accompanied by instruments like the harmonium, drums, and tabla.
Bahl (1936, p. 30) reports that this sound is unique in Indo-Aryan and that speakers of Multani take pride in its distinctiveness.
Bahá'í sources claim their population to be around 30,000.
Bait slightly resembles the forms of Dohas and Sorthas and is also influenced by Persian forms like Ghazal, Mathnavi, Rubai, and Kaafi.
Bakers sell various kinds of breads with golden brown crusts topped with sesame and poppy seeds.
Baloch cuisine is noted for its traditional and unique food culture.
Balochi (بلوچی) is an Iranian language spoken as a first language by about 3% of Pakistanis, mostly in the Balochistan province of Pakistan.
Balochi (بلوچی, romanized: Balòci) is a Northwestern Iranian language, spoken by Baloch in the Balochistan region of Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan.
Balochi and Pashto are written in Perso-Arabic script.
Balochi belongs to the Western Iranian subgroup, and its original homeland is suggested to be around the central Caspian region.
Balochi cuisine originates from Pakistan's Balochistan region, yet many of its dishes have gained nationwide acclaim.
Balochi is an Indo-European language, spoken by the Baloch and belonging to the Indo-Iranian branch of the family.
Balochi music, primarily found in the Pakistani province of Balochistan.
Balochi varieties constitute a dialect continuum and collectively at least have 10 million native speakers.
Balochi was not a written language before the 19th century, and the Persian script was used to write Balochi wherever necessary.
Balochi women wear heavy embroidered shalwar kameez and dupatta with the embroidery utilising Shisha work.
Balochi, like many Western Iranian languages, has lost the Old Iranian gender distinctions.
Balochistan is the only state in Pakistan where the "Jashn-e-Kalat" festival is celebrated.
Banarasi paan of Banaras (Varanasi) is widely famous among Indians and tourists visiting India.
Bangla paan, is also known as Mitha paan, Jhal paan or paan of Rajshahi.
Bangladesh has the biggest Eidgah, the Gor-E-Shahid Eidgah Maidan.
Bangladesh sacrifices most animals per year during Eid Al Adha, estimates indicate about 13 million animals are sacrificed each year.
Barber shops and beauty parlors are also heavily visited in the evening in preparation for the following day.
Based on archaeological, linguistic, and botanical evidence, betel chewing is most strongly associated with the Austronesian peoples.
Based on his analysis of a Mohenjo-daro seal, Iravatham Mahadevan speculates that the city's ancient name could have been Kukkuṭārma ("the city [-rma] of the cockerel [kukkuta]").
Based on the Laws of Cricket, the umpires declared Pakistan to have forfeited the game.
Based on these fortifications and the structure of other major Indus Valley cities such as Harappa, scholars have postulated that Mohenjo-daro was an administrative center.
Based on this evidence, he went on to suggest that the language used in the Indus Valley was of Dravidian origin.
Basic information about the mosque can be found written on the foundation stone.
Basketball was introduced to Pakistan around 1900 and is especially popular in Lahore and Karachi.
Basmati is the most popular type of rice consumed in Pakistan.
Basmati rice is the indigenous variety of Punjab, and various meat- and vegetable-based rice dishes have been developed using it.
Beans such as black-eyed peas (lobia) and kidney beans (rajma) are sometimes served in a tomato-based masala sauce, especially in Punjab.
Because Pakistani nationalism is based on Muslim nationalism, many Pakistanis see no conflict in identifying themselves as Muslim before identifying as Pakistanis.
Because Urdu was intentioned as means of unification for Muslims in Northern India and later Pakistan, it adopted a modified Perso-Arabic script.
Because of COVID-19, Pakistan had to consider using online classes.
Because of Urdu's similarity to Hindi, speakers of the two languages can easily understand one another if both sides refrain from using literary vocabulary.
Because of its comparative brevity, thematic variety and suggestive richness, the ghazal soon eclipsed the qaṣīda, and became the most popular poetry form in Persia.
Because of the country's identity with Islam, mosques like Badshahi Mosque and Faisal Mosque are also used as national symbols either to represent "glorious past" or modernistic future.
Because of the extensive preservation efforts and upkeep, Taxila is one of Punjab's popular tourist spots, attracting up to one million tourists every year.
Because of the figurines being unique in terms of hairstyles, body proportions, as well as headdresses and jewelry, there are theories as to who these figurines actually represent.
Because of this it alters the process of online learning especially for poor students or those living in rural areas.
Because the Hijri year differs by about 11 days from the AD year, Eid al Fitr can occur twice a year.
Because the Indus river has switched its location at various points in history, it has an "active" delta region, and total delta region (all area that was once a part of the delta).
Because the boundaries between India and Pakistan are poorly demarcated in some areas (e.g.
Before /ɦ/, the contrast between /a/ and /ə/ is neutralised.
Before 2005, Lahore was a film hub for both Punjabi and Urdu films.
Before a non-final prenasalised consonant,[m] long vowels undergo the same change but no gemination occurs.
Before independence, Muslim League leader Muhammad Ali Jinnah advocated the use of Urdu, which he used as a symbol of national cohesion in Pakistan.
Before the 19th century, Pakistani literature consisted mainly of lyric and religious poetry and mystical and folkloric works.
Before the fairly recent introduction of the harmonium, qawwalis were usually accompanied by the sarangi.
Before the special Eid meal is served, young children will line up in front of each adult family member, who dispense money as gifts to the children.
Before the special Eid meal is served, young children will line up in front of each adult family member, who dispenses money as gifts to the children.
Before the standardisation of Sindhi orthography, numerous forms of Devanagari and Laṇḍā scripts were used for trading.
Before the standardisation of Urdu into colonial administration, British officers often referred to the language as "Moors" or "Moorish jargon".
Before this, Pakistani dramas were not broadcast in the Middle East.
Before this, the Cyrillic script was already used for writing Balochi and was used in several publications but the alphabet was not standardized.
Beginning in 2016, New York City public schools also remain closed on Eid.
Beginning in World War 2, the Summer Palace was used as a storehouse for the British Civil Defence Department, and remained in use by Pakistan until 1973.
Being an Indo-Aryan language, the core vocabulary of Punjabi consists of tadbhav words inherited from Sanskrit.
Being an actress associated with the current crop of productions became an understandable taboo and many middle-class people began shunning these films.
Being classified under the Northwestern branch of the Indo-Aryan languages, Sindhi, apart from other Sindhic languages, is most closely related to Punjabi.
Being the world's largest tribal ethnicity, Pashtun society is guarded by a code of common rules, customs and social behaviors, known collectively as Pashtunwali.
Below table presents Sindhi Perso-Arabic alphabet.
Beside it is the extremely tall Qutb Minar, a minaret or victory tower, whose original four stages reach 73 meters (with a final stage added later).
Besides language, Baloch dressing has been greatly influenced by the entire country.
Besides tea, there are other drinks that may be included as part of the Pakistani cuisine.
Besides the state channel Radio Pakistan, a number of private radios carry independent journalistic content and news.
Besides the unmarked demonstratives, there are also "specific" and "present" demonstratives.
Bet Dwarka was fortified and continued to have contacts with the Persian Gulf region, but there was a general decrease of long-distance trade.
Betel chewing has very long tradition in Burma, having been practised since before the beginning of recorded history.
Betel chewing in China has a long history, particularly in the southern provinces.
Betel chewing only reached northern India and Kashmir after 500 CE through trade with Mon-Khmer-speaking peoples in the Bay of Bengal.
Betel leaf and lime are included in the quid, and commonly tobacco.
Betel leaf used to make paan is produced in different parts of India.
Betel leaves are arranged aesthetically on a decorated plate called paandani.
Betel nut chewing causes an increased risk of head and neck cancers and esophageal cancer.
Betel nut chewing is addictive and causes adverse health effects, mainly oral and esophageal cancers, and cardiovascular disease.
Betel nut chewing is common among the native ethnic groups of Micronesia.
Betel nut chewing was described as being a "universal" practice among older people in the early 1900s.
Betel nut chewing was formerly widespread among the ethnic groups of the Philippines.
Betel nut stains have been found in ancient remains of the Chamorro people, indicating that the practice was carried into Micronesia by their Austronesian ancestors in Island Southeast Asia.
Betel quid chewing can cause stillbirth, premature birth, low birth weight.
Betel quid stalls and kiosks used to be run mainly by people of Indian origin in towns and cities.
Better electronic media capacity was needed in the future and thus the market for electronic media was liberalised.
Between 1810–1830, the Sikhs began to commission these Pahari artists to paint Sikh subjects and settings, mostly Sikh royalty and nobility.
Between 1909 and 1932, he produced the monumental four-volume work Hindustani Sangeeta Paddhati, which suggested a transcription of Indian music, and described the many traditions in this notation.
Between 1947 and 2007, Pakistani cinema was predominantly based in Lahore, home to the nation's largest film industry (nicknamed Lollywood).
Between 1950 and 1997, Pakistan amassed over 30 British Open titles, 14 World Open titles and many more PSA professional titles.
Between 1984 and 2003, the Sharjah ground was the venue for 206 One Day Internationals held as part of commercially sponsored one day tournaments involving three or four international teams.
Between 2011 and 2012, 23 Hindus were kidnapped for ransom and 13 Hindus were killed as a part of targeted killings of non-Muslims.
Between July and September, a number of films were released beginning with Bin Roye (Without Crying).
Bhang lassi is a cannabis-infused drink that contains bhang, a liquid derivative of cannabis, which has effects similar to other eaten forms of cannabis.
Bhangra is one of the many Punjabi musical art forms that are increasingly listened to in the West and becoming a mainstream favourite.
Bhangra is one of the most famous dances originating in the Punjab by farmers during the harvesting season.
Bhatt would later hire Atif Aslam for the soundtrack of his film Zeher and Pakistani actress Meera to play a lead-role in one of his films.
Bibi Ka Maqbara was a mausoleum commissioned by Emperor Aurangzeb, in the late 17th century as a loving tribute to his first wife, Dilras Bano Begum in Aurangabad, Maharashtra.
Bindusaras reign witnessed a rebellion among the locals of Taxila to which according to the Ashokavadana, he dispatched Ashoka to quell the uprising.
Biryani can be cooked using one of two techniques, pakki ("cooked") and kacchi ("raw").
Biryani festivals have been held more widely in places such as Singapore and Qatar.
Biryani forms "the centrepiece of countless Indian holidays and weddings".
Biryani is a commonly served dish in Pakistan, and has many varieties, such as Lahori and Sindhi biryani.
Biryani is cooked with additional dressings and often has a light layer of scorched rice at the bottom.
Biryani is one of the most popular dishes in South Asia and among the South Asian diaspora.
Biryani is the single most-ordered dish in Indian online food ordering and delivery services, and has been described as the most popular dish in India.
Biryani is used across the Indian Subcontinent in celebrations.
Biryanis are often specific to the Muslim communities where they originate; they are usually the defining dishes of those communities.
Black loamy soil), giving its meaning as 'black soil for growing rice paddy'.
Black tea with milk and sugar is widely popular throughout Pakistan and is consumed daily, often accompanied by cookies or halva.
Blasphemy allegations have led to several cases of mob violence against Christian households and churches.
Books on culture, heritage, audio and video-cassettes of folk and classical vocal and instrumental music are available for sale at Lok Virsa's sales centre.
Boom Boom Cricket signed a deal with Pakistan Cricket Board in April 2010 to become the kit sponsors of the Pakistan team; the deal ended at the end of 2012 Asia Cup.
Both Port of Karachi and Port Qasim handle significant shipping traffic, resulting in oil discharge, some of which reaches the delta.
Both Umera and Farhat have written content for digests as well as television serials.
Both Urdu and Hindi, which are considered standard registers of the same language, Hindustani (or Hindi-Urdu), share a core vocabulary and grammar.
Both administrative divisions later amalgamated to become Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Both agree that they were sixth-largest mangrove forests in the world.
Both are attributed to Shah Jahan, although the Naulakha Pavilion may be a later addition possibly from the Sikh era.
Both black (with milk) and green teas are popular and there are different varieties common in different parts of Pakistan.
Both coordinate and subordinate clauses that precede the final clause in the sentence have rising intonation.
Both flat-shaped (triangular) and full-shaped (tetrahedron/triangular pyramid) samosas are popular snacks in Bangladesh.
Both have stone-built cores with elaborately carved wooden exterior galleries, at Amburiq on two levels, in an adaptation of traditional local styles.
Both mosques feature red sandstone with white marble inlay, which is a departure from typical mosque design in Lahore, in which decoration is done by means of intricate tile work.
Both mosques had large detached screens with pointed corbelled arches added in front of them, probably under Iltutmish a couple of decades later.
Both of these dynasties introduced Islamic architecture and art styles from West Asia into the Indian subcontinent.
Both of these features were hardly used in Hindu temple architecture and other indigenous Indian styles.
Both plants are native from the region between Island Southeast Asia to Australasia.
Both players won many laurels for the country.
Both secular and religious buildings are influenced by Indo-Islamic architecture.
Both the Muslims and Hindus from across the border continue the tradition.
Both the interior and exterior of the mosque are decorated with elaborate white marble carved with a floral design common to Mughal art.
Both these tombs have external walls sloping slightly inwards, by 25° in the Delhi tomb, like many fortifications including the ruined Tughlaqabad Fort opposite the tomb, intended as the new capital.
Both types of building essentially consist of a single large space under a high dome, and completely avoid the figurative sculpture so important to Hindu temple architecture.
Both union and state laws specify the use of Punjabi in the field of education.
Brahui (براہوئی) is a Dravidian language spoken in the central part of Balochistan province of Pakistan.
Brahui has been influenced by the Iranian languages spoken in the area, including Persian, Balochi and Pashto.
Brahui has been written in the Arabic script since the second half of the 20th century.
Brahui is geographically isolated from other Dravidian languages, with the nearest being over 1,500 kilometres (930 mi) away in South India.
Brahui is the only Dravidian language that is primarily written in the Arabic script.
Brahui is the only Dravidian language which is not known to have been written in a Brahmi-based script.
Brahui orthography is unique in having the letter 'ڷ', representing the sound [ɬ].
Brahui vowels show a partial length distinction between long /aː eː iː oː uː/ and diphthongs /aɪ̯ aʊ̯/ and short /a i u/.
Brick was sometimes still used for domes and arches, but in these cases it was usually faced with plaster or stone as a finish.
Bridal couture Week 360 2011 was sponsored by Pantene one of the leading Shampoo company in Pakistan and organized by Style 360 Pakistan's only Fashion Channel.
British colonial officers first wrote Balochi with the Latin script.
British language policy played a role in shaping political developments that eventually led to the partition of colonial India into India and Pakistan.
British visitors to the fort noted Christian iconography during the Jahangir period, with paintings of the Madonna and Jesus found in the fort complex.
British-Pakistani writer Nadeem Aslam won the Kiriyama Prize for his second book, Maps for Lost Lovers (2004).
Broadcasting in Punjabi language by Pakistan Broadcasting Corporation decreased on TV and radio after 1947.
Brooke further notes that the development of advanced cities coincides with a reduction in rainfall, which may have triggered a reorganisation into larger urban centres.
Buddhism became prominent in merchant communities and then spread throughout the Mauryan empire through commercial connections and along trade routes.
Buddhism first reached the Gandhara region of Pakistan following the Third Buddhist Council where Ashoka sent missionaries to the region.
Buddhism first reached what is now Pakistan during Ashoka’s reign when he sent a monk from Varanasi called Majjhantika to preach in Kashmir and Gandhara.
Buddhism has an ancient history in Pakistan; currently there is a small community of at least 1,500 Pakistani Buddhists in the country.
Buddhism survived confined in the northern region of Gilgit Baltistan until 13–14th century, perhaps slightly longer in the nearby Swat Valley.
Buddhist art spread from Gandhara to other parts of Asia.
Buddhist imagery combined with some artistic elements from the cultures of the Hellenistic world.
Buddhist sites in Sindh are numerous but ill preserved in various stages of deterioration.
Buildings, shops, roads and houses in UAE cities get decorated in bright festive lights.
Buland Darwaza, also known as the Gate of Magnificence, was commissioned by Akbar in 1576 to commemorate his victory over Gujarat and the Deccan.
Bulbous domes and ogive arches were among the most prominent recurring elements.
Burial sites in Bohol dated to the first millennium CE also show the distinctive reddish stains characteristic of betel chewing.
Burmese history also mentions an ancient custom of a condemned enemy asking for "a betel quid and a drink of water" before being executed.
Burnes, who also stopped in Harappa, noted the baked bricks employed in the site's ancient masonry, but noted also the haphazard plundering of these bricks by the local population.
Businesses engage in rigorous marketing, as do leading designer fashion outlets which stock independence-themed clothing, jewellery and self-adornments.
Businesses tend to sell a high range of candies and children's toys during this period.
But as the group stages progressed the bowling attack improved significantly for Pakistan, winning games against South Africa by 19 runs, and a crucial game against Sri Lanka by 3 wickets.
But given the originality of Mehrgarh, Jarrige concludes that Mehrgarh has an earlier local background, and is not a "'backwater' of the Neolithic culture of the Near East".
But in 2013, the Ministry of National Harmony was merged with the Ministry of Religious Affairs despite opposition from the minorities.
But it did not reach Polynesia further east.
But it was of no use as till then cable TV network was already introduced in urbanized cities, like Rawalpindi, Islamabad, Lahore and Karachi.
But most radio content is music and entertainment.
But stone was used for columns and prominent details, usually re-used from Hindu or Buddhist temples.
But the number of non-Muslim reserved seats were not increased from 10.
But there has been a surge in interest, particularly with Rubab Raza.
But there is a small mosque at Molla Simla, Hooghly district, that is possibly from 1375, earlier than the mausoleum.
But this assumed that other Muslim states would take the same view of the relation between religion and nationality.
But, if females are able to attend, they academically outperform male students.
But, low female enrollment is still a very prevalent issue.
But, the first ODI match was abandoned due to heavy rain.
By 1947 there were around 80 cinemas in East Bengal.
By 1983, the population had tripled to nearly 93 million, making Pakistan the world's 9th most populous country, although in area it ranked 34th.
By 1994, PTV joined the satellite beam alongside PTV-2, which was later renamed PTV World in 1998.
By 1999, a surge of new films began releasing.
By 2000, the film industry in Lahore had collapsed and saw a gradual shift of Pakistani actors, actresses, producers and filmmakers from Lahore to Karachi.
By 2003, young filmmakers in Karachi began experimenting with film and released low budget films to demonstrate that high quality content could be produced in Pakistan using limited resources.
By 2005, a gradual shift had begun whereby Karachi was replacing Lahore as the Urdu film hub of the country.
By 2007, the wounds of Pakistan's collapsed film industry began to heal and Karachi had cemented itself as the new center of Pakistani cinema.
By 2013, several Pakistani films were theatrically released - the first time in over a decade.
By 2021, some Muslims were returning to mosques to pray for the holiday.
By 2050, it is projected to climb to the fourth position with 11.55 million Hindus.
By 2600 BCE, the Early Harappan communities turned into large urban centres.
By 900 BCE, the city was already involved in regional commerce, as the discovered pottery shards reveal trading ties between the city and Puṣkalāvatī.
By analyzing vast educational data, these portals identify learning patterns, assess teaching methodologies, and pinpoint areas for improvement.
By around 1300 true domes and arches with voussoirs were being built; the ruined Tomb of Balban (d. 1287) in Delhi may be the earliest survival.
By comparison in more recent times the last place of Hindu pilgrimage in Makran was Hinglaj, 256 km west of present-day Karachi in Las Bela.
By contrast, a play where the raider scores three or more points is referred to as a "super raid".
By far the most exquisite and obscure artefacts unearthed to date are the small, square steatite (soapstone) seals engraved with human or animal motifs.
By now the annual output dropped to around 40 films, all produced by a single studio.
By providing extensive coverage of the 2007 Lawyer's Movement's struggle to get the chief justice reinstated, the media played a significant role in mobilising civil society.
By some accounts, Taxila was considered to be one of the earliest (or the earliest) universities in the world.
By some accounts, the University of ancient Taxila is considered to be one of the earliest universities or education centre in South Asia.
By the 15th century, decorated rosettes and circular patterns began to be incorporated into the tombs.
By the 6th century BCE Gandhara gained recognition as one of the sixteen Mahajanapadas within South Asia.
By the early 2000s "an industry that once produced an average of 80 films annually was now struggling to even churn out more than two films a year".
By the early 2000s, 1,500 newspapers and journals existed in Pakistan.
By the end of 2022, almost all the leading Test playing nations had toured the country again, the 2025 ICC Champions Trophy is scheduled to be held in Pakistan.
By the end of the 10th century CE, the region was ruled by several Hindu Shahi kings who would be subdued by the Ghaznavids.
By the end of the twelfth century, Buddhism had further disappeared, with the conquest of the Ghaznavids.
By the late 16th century, a more distinctive Mughal tradition emerged based on the combination of these two sources.
By the late 18th century the style was effectively over.
By the ninth century, it became a dependency of the Kabul Shahis.
By the time Gandhara had been absorbed into the empire of Mahmud of Ghazni, Buddhist buildings were already in ruins and Gandhara's art had been forgotten.
By the time Ibn Batuta reached the Indus delta, Debal had been abandoned due to increased shoaling preventing the then-port from accessing the sea.
Byram D. Avari also won a silver medal at the Enterprise World Championship held in Canada in 1978.
Byram Dinshawji Avari won gold medals for Pakistan at the 1978 Asian Games in Bangkok, and again at the 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi.
Cable TV Networks are the most famous mode of television distribution in Pakistan.
Calculations of the author show that during the past 37 years, the highest public expenditure on education was 2.80 percent of GDP in 1987–88.
Called samoosas in South Africa, they tend to be smaller than Indian variants, and form part of South African Indian and Cape Malay cuisine.
Camel bone ornamentation and predominance of red colours is commonly seen on trucks decorated in Sindh.
Captain Mackeson described Maharaja Ranjit Singh distributing suits of clothes and large sums of money as rewards on Lohri day in 1836.
Carina Jahani is a prominent Swedish Iranologist and professor of Iranian languages at Uppsala University, deeply researching in the study and preservation of the Balochi language.
Carla Khan, Noorena Shams two of Pakistan's most successful sportswomen, who represent Pakistan.
Carved stonework included ornately sculpted pillars and corbels, flat panels carved in low relief with depictions of flowers, and pierced marble screens known as jalis.
Cascades were made to flow over a marble paths in what are known as chadors, or "curtains" into the middle terrace.
Cases collected by Global Human Rights Defence show that underage Hindu (and Christian) girls are often targeted by Muslims for forced conversion to Islam.
Catches of mangrove dependent fish were valued at $20 million annually, shrimp at $70 million and mud crabs at $3 million.
Celebrants hold mahfils on Mawlid in which religious poetry is recited in praise of Muhammad accompanied by a feast.
Celebration in the Maldives include cultural performances.
Celebrations and observances are generally carried forward to the three following days, known as the Tashreeq days.
Celebrations include weddings, birth of a child, or the end of Ramadan.
Celebrations marking the event are typically accompanied by elaborate banquets, where special dishes such as xalwo (halwo) and buskut (buskuit) are served.
Celebratory fire with automatic rifles, particularly tracer rounds, can also be expected in high density.
Censorship during the Zia years was direct, concrete and dictatorial.
Central contracts were awarded to 25 players in four different categories.
Certain wall-divisions in its massive wooden superstructure appeared to be grain storage-bays, complete with air-ducts to dry the grain.
Chaand Raat (Hindustani: [t͡ʃãːd̪ ɾaːt̪], lit.
Chaand Raat also gives a chance for people to meet with friends and extended family.
Chaand Raat celebrations occur on the eve of Eid ul-Fitr, which is celebrated on 1 Shawwal.
Chaand Raat is celebrated festively and passionately by Muslims (and occasionally non-Muslims as well) all over South Asia, and in socio-cultural significance, is comparable to Christmas Eve.
Chaand Raat occurs on the same evening on which first lunar crescent of the month of Shawwal is observed.
Chains and pendants often dangle off the front bumper.
Chanakya, a prominent figure in the establishment of the Mauryan Empire, played a key role by adopting Chandragupta Maurya, the initial Mauryan emperor.
Channels like ARY Digital, Geo Entertainment, and Hum TV were launched, introducing a diverse range of programming to the Pakistani audience.
Chapati diameter and thickness vary from region to region.
Chapati is a form of roti or rotta (bread).
Chapatis are made using a soft dough comprising wheat flour and water.
Chapatis are one of the most common forms of wheat bread, a staple food in the Indian subcontinent.
Chapatis go well with curries, dry sabzis or sabjis (vegetables cooked in gravy), chutneys or dal.
Chapli kabab is served in thousands of kebab shops in Pakistan, Afghanistan and India.
Chapli kabab[A] is a Pashtun-style minced kebab made from ground beef, mutton or chicken with various spices in the shape of a patty.
Chapli kababs can be served and eaten hot with naan or as a bun kebab.
Chapshuro is the local alternative of pizza in Nagar.
Charbeta is a highly popular form of Pashto poetry, often epic in nature, focusing on heroic figures and events.
Charity and food is distributed, and stories about the life of Muhammad are narrated with recitation of poetry by children.
Charles Masson, James Prinsep, and Alexander Cunningham deciphered the Kharosthi script in 1838.
Chaudhry feels, like many others in country, that the media in Pakistan has become free and fair during the last decade.
Chemical run-off into the river threatens many species.
Chewing betel generally requires the combination of areca nut (Areca catechu) and betel leaf (Piper betle).
Chewing betel quids and areca nut causes multiple forms of cancer and cardiovascular disease, with or without tobacco.
Chewing betel was once common in Malaysia, but the practice has long since died out.
Chewing results in permanent red stains on the teeth after prolonged use.
Chicken karahi is a famous poultry dish.
Chickpeas, known as channa, are also a common breakfast food when served with puri.
Chickpeas, red kidney beans, and other legumes are also popular in Pakistani cooking.
Children are given gifts, either in the form of toys or money.
Children are given money in colourful envelopes.
Children do "Salam" by touching the feet of the elderly members of the family.
Children walk from home to home saying "Khala Eidet Mubarak" ("aunt happy Eid"), and they receive cookies or Pala.
Children wear special garlands made of groundnuts, dry fruits and candies on Lohri day.
Children would receive coins of money from locals.
Chiltan Adventurers Association Balochistan is the major affiliated unit of ACP founded in 1984.
Chinese Buddhist traveller Hiuen Tsang reported many Buddhist temples in coastal regions of Makran, Balochistan.
Chinese records provided locations and site plans for Buddhist shrines.
Chris Rodgers won the Pakistan Open in 2006.
Christian and Hindu leaders complained that they felt excluded from the county's political process, but the policy had strong support from Islamists.
Christianity in Pakistan is growing fast, going from 1.27% in 2017 to 1.37% in 2023, making it one of the religions in Pakistan growing faster than Islam, alongside Hinduism.
Christianity is the third-largest religion in Pakistan, with the 2023 Census recording over three million Christians, or 1.37% of the total population in Pakistan.
Christians (Urdu: مسيحى، عیسائی) make up 1.3% of Pakistan's population.
Christians faced judgement living in Pakistan, with local Muslims even stating that they had to live a life of servitude and perform sanitation work.
Christians have also contributed as educators, doctors, lawyers and businessmen.
Christians have made contributions to the Pakistani national life.
Christians mainly live in the urban centres of Punjab.
Cinema houses were declining in all major cities and a revival of cinema was being echoed throughout the media.
Cities like Harappa and Mohenjo-Daro (the "City of the Dead") had populations of some 35,000, they were laid out according to a grid system.
Citizens attending independence day parades and other events are usually dressed in Pakistan's official colours, green and white.
City streets have a festive look, and brightly decorated malls and markets remain open late into the night.
Civil society in Pakistan is largely hierarchical, emphasising local cultural etiquette and traditional Islamic values that govern personal and political life.
Classical and other dances are classified as sword dances, broqchhos and ghazal dances.
Classical ghazals are difficult to render because of the varying moods of the "shers" or couplets in the ghazal.
Clay and stone tablets unearthed at Harappa, which were carbon-dated 3300–3200 BC, contain trident-shaped and plant-like markings.
Clerks in the Maktab Khana would also record the entry of guests into the fort.
Clever bowling coupled with wonderful batting and fielding allowed the hosts to stroll past the visitors.
Close to the "Great Granary" is a large and elaborate public bath, sometimes called the Great Bath.
Club nights that feature [South] Asian music such as bhangra and [South Asian] hip hop, as previously mentioned, are often billed as 'desi' nights.
Coastal settlements extended from Sutkagan Dor in Western Baluchistan to Lothal in Gujarat.
Coated with icing sugar and shredded coconut, these jamuns are more like pedas.
Cobb ordered live trout from England and dropped them into the Ghizer River.
Cobb was impressed by Kakakhail's resourcefulness and efficiency and wished to reward him for his service, but Kakakhail refused to accept any reward for his work.
Cock-fighting may have had ritual and religious significance for the city.
Codeswitching of varying degrees is observed in some speakers, usually with English but also with Malay and Indonesian.
Coerced conversions to Islam from Christianity are a major source of concern for Pakistani Christians, and the minority faces threats, harassment and intimidation tactics from extremists.
Coins of the Alchons rulers Khingila and Mehama were found at the Buddhist monastery of Mes Aynak, southeast of Kabul, confirming the Alchon presence in this area around 450–500 CE.
Coke Studio Pakistan, a music television series, aimed to revive the blended identity of Pakistani music.
Collingham writes that "in the kitchens [of the Mughal court]... the delicately flavoured Persian pilau met the pungent and spicy rice dishes of Hindustan to create the classic Mughlai dish, biryani".
Combined they have won 14 world opens, making Pakistan the most decorated Squash nation in the world.
Common desserts include multani halwa and phikka khoya.
Common dishes are soups such as kalli, flatbread variants such as ghalmandi, and traditional juices such as chamborogh (made with dried apricots).
Common food choices for eid dinner include couscous, lamb or beef brochettes and others.
Common instruments used in Balochi music include the suroz, donali, and benju.
Common instruments used in Sindhi regional music include the yaktaro (a one-string instrument), narr (a type of flute), and naghara (a drum).
Compared to other regional styles, Karachi haleem is often more finely blended and slightly spicier, reflecting local culinary preferences.
Consequently, Ahmadi Muslims were declared non-Muslims by a parliamentary tribunal and are subject to persecution under Pakistani blasphemy laws.
Conservation of invaluable heritage sites in the 400-year-old city of Dhaka was ignored for many years.
Conservation works at the Picture Wall began in 2015 by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture and Walled City of Lahore Authority.
Conservative ulama (Islamic scholars) were added to the Council of Islamic Ideology.
Considerable amount of Sikhs are found in neighbourhood called Narayanpura of Karachi's Ranchore Lines.
Consonants are also very similar to those of Balochi, but Brahui has more fricatives and nasals (Elfenbein 1993).
Consonants following short vowels are lengthened: /pət̪o/ [pət̪ˑoː] 'leaf' vs. /pɑt̪o/ [pɑːt̪oː] 'worn'.
Constructed between 1673 and 1674, it is the largest Mughal mosque and the last of the imperial mosques to be built.
Construction of the gardens began in 1641 during the reign of Emperor Shah Jahan, and was completed in 1642.
Construction of the gardens began on 3 Rabi-ul-Awwal 1051AH(6 June 1641), and took 17 months and 14 days to complete.
Construction of the mosque began in 1976 after a $28 million grant from Saudi King Faisal, whose name the mosque bears.
Consumers prefer chewing tobacco formulations such as gutka over paan.
Contemporary Islamic fundamentalists criticize its popular character, which in their view, does not accurately reflect the teachings and practice of the Islamic prophet Muhammad and his companions.
Content should teach students how to solve societal problems and not assist in political conflicts.
Contrary to the older ideas of elite control over metal production, recent research indicates that access to copper and bronze was relatively widespread throughout the Indus society.
Controversy raged over the 1998 film Jinnah, produced by Akbar Salahuddin Ahmed and directed by Jamil Dehlavi.
Conventionally, Hindus were allotted 4 or 5 seats.
Conversely, several Saraiki dialects have multiple names corresponding to different locales or demographic groups.
Conversion to faiths other than Islam is not prohibited by law.
Conversions are also carried out by Baba Deen Mohammad Shaikh mission which converted 108,000 people to Islam since 1989.
Cool water perfumed by roses flowed through an elaborate system of 42 waterfalls and cascades throughout the palace.
Copper was abundant at Indus sites, as revealed by archaeology.
Cottage and household industries include stoneware, pottery and footwear.
Cotton textiles and agricultural products were the primary trading objects.
Courses will be co-instructed by faculty from the Medill School, accomplished newsroom managers, editors and reporters from the United States, and prominent media professionals from Pakistan.
Credit goes to Ayesha Tammy Haq, a British-trained lawyer and chief executive of Fashion Pakistan, who came up with the idea for Pakistan’s first fashion week, held in November 2009.
Creeks in Indus Delta in Pakistan are listed from west to east as follows, many of which fall within the Keti Bunder South Wildlife Sanctuary which is a Ramsar site.
Cricket in Pakistan has a history predating the creation of the country in 1947.
Cricket is considered the most popular sport in Pakistan.
Cricket is the most popular sport in Pakistan.
Cricket is the most popular sport in the country.
Cricket was introduced by the British during their colonial rule of British India, which covered the area now known as Pakistan.
Cricket, however, is the most popular game across the country.
Crispy samosas filled with a spicy onion filling are also popular in the city and known as Irani/onion samosas.
Criteria i through vi are cultural, and vii through x are natural.
Critics argue that selective application of regulations and decisions influenced by political considerations may compromise the independence of media outlets.
Critics contend that such perceived inconsistencies could potentially stifle the diversity of voices and perspectives in the media landscape.
Cuisine traditionally associated with Eid al-Adha includes ma'amoul and samosas.
Cultivation of areca nut palm and betel leaves is common in rural areas of these countries, being a traditional cash crop, and the utensils used for preparation are often treasured.
Cumin and cardamom are the most common spices added to lassi.
Cumin seeds, chili powder, turmeric, and bay leaves are also very popular.
Cunningham's subsequent explorations in 1863–64 of a site at Shah-dheri convinced him that his hypothesis was correct.
Currently the site is threatened by groundwater salinity and improper restoration.
Currently, it houses the archaeological survey office.
Currently, the most common rendering of the name is Saraiki.
Curse), hence meaning the 'curse of God'.
DAE is a three years programme of instructions which is equivalent to 12th grade.
Daal chawaal (lentils and rice) is known as a popular comfort food in many Pakistani households.
Dada also had plastic seating installed in place of the existing concrete benches.
Dada's redesign was done with red, hand-laid brickwork and arches.
Dakhini is widely spoken in all parts of Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.
Dakhni (also known as Dakani, Deccani, Desia, Mirgan) is spoken in Deccan region of southern India.
Dalag is among the prominent dishes regarded by the Baloch people as a core element of their culture and identity.
Dalokay also believed that the design of the Masjid represents Kaaba in an abstract manner.
Damn you, Elijah, I'll bless Jezebel tonight.
Darius then returned to Persia via the Bolan Pass.
Dastaan, a Pakistani drama serial, based on the novel Bano by Razia Butt, also tells the story of Pakistan Movement and events surrounding the independence of Pakistan.
Dated to about 2600 BCE, they were likely composed of legumes, primarily mung, and cereals.
Dattilam categorizes melodic structure into 18 groups called Jati, which are the fundamental melodic structures similar to the raga.
David Gordon White cites three other mainstream scholars who "have emphatically demonstrated" that Vedic religion derives partially from the Indus Valley Civilisations.
Debal also seemed to be the base of pirates from the tribe of Nagamara.
Debal remained a port, and the last recorded mention of it was in 1223 AD.
Decadal censuses taken in British India revealed the religious composition of all administrative divisions that would ultimately compose regions situated in contemporary Pakistan.
Deccani, an older form used in southern India, became a court language of the Deccan sultanates by the 16th century.
Decoration may include structural changes, paintings, calligraphy and ornamental-decor like mirror work on the front and back of vehicles and wooden carvings on the truck doors.
Decoration was commonly executed in tile or stone.
Decorative lights are put up in markets as well as government buildings, banks and mosques.
Decorative motifs included geometric and floral designs, as well as elaborate inscriptions in Arabic, Persian, and even in local languages during the late Mughal period.
Defence Day (Urdu: یومِ دفاع ALA-LC: Yaum-i Difāʿ IPA: [jɔːm-e d̪ɪfɑː]) is celebrated in Pakistan as a national day to commemorate the sacrifices made by Pakistani soldiers in defending its borders.
Delightful) until the reign of Shah Alam I.
Departmental sports in Pakistan were restored in August 2022.
Depending on the juristic opinion of the locality, this salat is either farḍ (فرض, obligatory) or mustaḥabb (strongly recommended).
Depending on the narrative, either Ishmael or Isaac are referred to with the honorific title "Sacrifice of God".
Depictions of various historical scenes and poetic verses are also common.
Derajat is bound by the Indus River and the Sulaiman Mountains to the west.
Desi daru refers to "country liquor", such as fenny, toddy and arrack.
Desi pubs are especially common in the Black Country and surrounding areas of the West Midlands.
Designed by Khawaja Jahan Muhammad Dost, it was used as a passage to the Audience Hall from the palace buildings to the north.
Designed by Turkish architect Vedat Dalokay, the mosque features a contemporary design consisting of eight sides of concrete shell and is inspired by the design of a typical Bedouin tent.
Designs by Yasmeen Lari, such as the Malki Zero Carbon Cultural Centre and Green Karavan Ghar are examples.
Desiness imagines a more conhesive, pan-South Asian American community that goes beyond nation, class, and religion.
Despite Punjabi's rich literary history, it was not until 1947 that it would be recognised as an official language.
Despite an initial Arab presence in Sindh, the development of Indo-Islamic architecture began in earnest with the establishment of Delhi as the capital of the Ghurid dynasty in 1193.
Despite an initial standoff which led to Alexander being struck in the leg by an Asvaka arrow, peace terms were negotiated between the Queen of Massaga and Alexander.
Despite being Brahmins, most Kashmiri Hindus are meat eaters.
Despite being a country with many mountains, the sport has never taken off until the late 1990s.
Despite being a predominantly Muslim nation, Pakistan's Sindh province boasts a remarkable Hindu heritage and cultural legacy.
Despite being associated with adverse health outcomes, this practice is not included in the list of risk factors examined by the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors (GBD).
Despite being in his late forties, Hashim Khan showed great skill and speed and in 1951 competed in the prestigious British Open.
Despite being the most-widely spoken language in Pakistan, the language is in decline.
Despite celebrating several colourful festivals peacefully and traditionally, there is also an unlawful tradition or settlement practice called Baad.
Despite governmental attempts at Urduisation of Pakistan, the position and prestige of English only grew stronger in the meantime.
Despite its lack of official sanction, the Punjabi language continued to flourish as an instrument of cultural production, with rich literary traditions continuing until modern times.
Despite lacking any state-level status, Sindhi is still a prominent minority language in the Indian states of Gujarat, Rajasthan and Maharashtra.
Despite limited resources, fewer fixtures, and a significant disparity in pay and recognition compared to their male counterparts, the team has made notable strides since its debut in 1997.
Despite modern trends, regional and traditional forms of dress have developed their own significance as a symbol of native tradition.
Despite optimism of a solid revival, progress continued to be slow.
Despite repeated assessments, the Punjab School Education Department has failed to initiate timely repairs.
Despite the concerns from the players, team manager Asanka Gurusinha felt that a competitive squad would be named.
Despite the crackdown on music during the Islamization regime, Pakistani music continued to evolve, often thriving in underground performances, through artists who continued to defy the regime.
Despite the crisis starting in the mid-1970s, Pakistani films have retained much of their distinctive identity, and since the shift to Karachi, they have regained their following.
Despite the criticisms of Marshall's association of the seal with a proto-Shiva icon, it has been interpreted as the Tirthankara Rishabhanatha by some scholars of Jainism like Vilas Sangave.
Despite the efforts of philologists from all parts of the world and the use of modern cryptographic analysis, the signs remain undeciphered.
Despite the importance of the issue, no new policies (except now-defunct-quota) have been proposed or implemented to ensure women's retention in workforce.
Despite the longstanding tensions between the Sikh and Muslim communities in South Asia, the Pashtuns were tolerant towards the religious minority of Sikhs.
Despite the restrictive environment of the Islamization era, underground rock concerts began to flourish across the country.
Despite the victory, however, Hindus still remain largely disenfranchised.
Despite these differences, many dishes from Punjab have gained popularity across the region and throughout Pakistan.
Despite these obstacles, the first Pakistani feature film, Teri Yaad was released on 7 August 1948, and premiered at the Parbat Theatre in Lahore.
Despite these reports, Harappa was raided even more perilously for its bricks after the British annexation of the Punjab in 1848–49.
Despite this many elderly ladies still have it as well as a few younger ones in Southern Afghanistan.
Despite this, there have been instances where attacks have occurred on independence day by insurgents who boycott the celebrations as a part of their protest.
Destruction of heritage sites and historical monuments started during Pakistan period on a moderate scale but it gained momentum after independence.
Detailed documentation of the wall using 3D scanner was completed in July 2016, after which conservation work would start.
Devanagari was seen as the most practical option for Sindhi language in India.
Dhakai Khilipan, a ready pack of betel leaf processed in Dhaka is famous in the sub-continent.
Dhakaiya Urdu is a colloquial non-standard dialect of Urdu which was typically not written.
Dhakaiya Urdu is a dialect native to the city of Old Dhaka in Bangladesh, dating back to the Mughal era.
Dhoti, lungi, or tehmat are often worn in rural areas.
Dhrupad is an old style of singing, traditionally performed by male singers.
Dhrupad music is primarily devotional in theme and content.
Dhrupad was the main form of northern Indian classical music until two centuries ago when it gave way to the somewhat less austere khyal, a more free-form style of singing.
Diacritical bars below the letter are used to mark implosive consonants, and dots called nukta are used to form other additional consonants.
Dietary variations include adding eggs, potatoes, and substituting meat with paneer or vegetables, especially in Hindu or non-religious vegetarian variants.
Difference between a question and a statement is marked with the tone, when there is no question word.
Different sub-tribes of the Ghilji tribe have different patterns.
Digital TV satellite broadcasting commenced in 1999, with PTV/PTV-1 gaining an independent satellite beam in 2001.
Digital education has been started in many of the educational institution in Pakistan to utilize time efficiently during the current time.
Diploma holders are called associate engineers.
Directed by Azfar Jafri and written by Osman Khalid Butt, the film starred Hareem Farooq, Qazi Jabbar, Mahnoor Usman and Ahmed Ali Akbar.
Discovered by John Marshall in 1931, the idol appears to mimic certain characteristics that match the Mother Goddess belief common in many early Near East civilisations.
Dishes like buckwheat bread, rosehip oil bread, and almond bread are commonly prepared in Hunza.
Dishes similar to tandoori chicken may have existed during the Harappan civilization during the Bronze Age of India.
Dishes such as baingan bartha and sarson da saag are typical examples eaten in most homes.
Distance Learning for AIOU: Allama Iqbal Open University (AIOU) is a pioneer in distance education in Pakistan, offering flexible learning opportunities through online and offline modes.
Distinctive seals were used, among other applications, perhaps for the identification of property and shipment of goods.
Distinguished musicians who are Hindu may be addressed as Pandit and those who are Muslim as Ustad.
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) education is available in selected areas and is usually pursued after earning a MPhil degree.
Documentation of the wall using 3D scanner was completed in July 2016, after which conservation work would start.
Doris Srinivasan has argued that the figure does not have three faces or yogic posture and that in Vedic literature Rudra was not a protector of wild animals.
Dr. Marshall concluded that the temples in blocks 'F' and 'G' of Sirkap are Jaina temples due to their architectural similarities with Kankali Tila, a Jaina stupa, found in Mathura.
Dr. Naweed Syed is a Pakistani Canadian scientist.
Dr. Sarang Bhittai lives in New York, USA.
Dr. Sir John Marshall noted that Indo-Greek kings displaced the city from its fortified position and settled it in Sirkap during the early years of the second century BCE.
Dried sour prunes (alu bukhara) may be added.
Due to falling sea-levels, certain regions were abandoned during the late Harappan period.
Due to its Muslim-majority population, Pakistan's cuisine sees a strict observance of Islamic dietary laws.
Due to its foreign origin, it is often also realised as [s], in e.g.
Due to the incursion of Persian and Persianized-Arabic in modern speech, linguistic purism of Pashto is advocated to prevent its own vocabulary from dying out.
Due to the low population of Hindus in the Central Punjab, many of the Hindus have married Sikhs and vice versa.
Due to their dominance in both print and broadcast industries all three media groups are very influential in politics and society.
Due to this early on prevention of females attending schools, males dominate the education field.
Due to this important position, Buddhist texts listed the Gandhāra kingdom as one of the sixteen Mahājanapadas ("great realms") of Iron Age South Asia.
Due to this service, the Directorate of Fisheries was established and hundreds of people were employed.
Duleep Singh had signed the Treaty of Bhyroval in 1847 that brought the Sikh empire to an effective end.
Dumplings locally called mumtu are well known in Gilgit cuisine.
Dumraon Gharana Dist-Buxar is an ancient tradition of Dhrupad music nearly 500 years old.
During Bahá'u'lláh's lifetime, as founder of the religion, he encouraged some of his followers to move to the area that is present day Pakistan.
During Baraat and Walima functions, the groom usually wears kurta shalwar or kurta churidar with special sherwani and khussa.
During Bihu, the husori players are offered areca nuts and betel leaves by each household while their blessings are solicited.
During British rule in the late 19th century, the Perso-Arabic script was decreed standard over Devanagari.
During Kushan rule, Gandharan Buddhism was at the height of its influence and a significant number of Buddhist centers were built or renovated.
During Pakistan's Mawlid, the day starts with a 31-gun salute in the federal capital and a 21-gun salute at the provincial capitals and religious hymns are sung during the day.
During Pre Islamic era in Pakistan, there was a prominent population of Hindus, especially in provinces in Punjab and Sindh.
During Ramadan, in small towns and big villages with significant Muslim populations, Burmese Muslim youth organize singing teams called Jago (meaning "wake up").
During Ramadan, many restaurants and cafes may have limited operating hours during the day and may be closed during fasting hours.
During Samprati's rule, the extent of the wandering of Jaina monks developed multifold times, and later also included this region.
During Shahjahan's time, the Capital was relocated to Delhi and named Shahjahanabad and the Bazar of the town was named Urdu e Muallah.
During a debate in the court of Ranjit Singh, his courtiers told the maharaja that 'shala' was a Turkic word which meant pleasure while 'mar' meant the place to live in.
During classical antiquity, a special Gandharan architecture evolved in the ancient region of Gandhara with the rise of Buddhism.
During every Takbir of the first rakat, a special Dua is recited.
During his five-year reign, Babur took considerable interest in erecting buildings, though few have survived.
During his reign in particular, non-Muslims were present among the highest-ranking officials and were able to become patrons of architecture as well.
During his reign, stupas and monasteries were built in the Gandhāra.
During his rule and that of his son and successor, Anandapala, the kingdom of Lahore was conquered.
During intervals, the locals enthrall the audiences with traditional and cultural performances.
During its height the civilisation extended from Balochistan in the west to western Uttar Pradesh in the east, from northeastern Afghanistan in the north to Gujarat state in the south.
During lulls in Greek rule, the city managed profitably on its own, to independently control several local trade guilds, who also minted most of the city's autonomous coinage.
During that time, the cap was widely known as Tajik cap, Kolab cap, Panjshiri cap and other names in Afghanistan.
During the 1980s and 1990s the corporation expanded its network to many cities and towns of Pakistan to provide greater service to the local people.
During the 1980s, the stadium also hosted international football matches, and was chosen as venue for the 1982 Quaid-e-Azam International Tournament.
During the 20th century, beverages such as coffee and soft drinks have become popular in Pakistan.
During the 6th century BCE, Gandhāra was an important imperial power in north-west Iron Age South Asia, with the valley of Kaśmīra being part of the kingdom.
During the 6th or 5th century BCE, Gandhara was governed under the reign of King Pukkusāti.
During the Anglo-Sikh Wars, many of the British officials and soldiers who made their way to Punjab were artists.
During the British Colonial period, European styles such as the Baroque, Gothic and Neoclassical became prevalent.
During the British Raj, European architectural styles such as baroque, gothic and neoclassical became more predominant.
During the British Raj, a variant of the Persian alphabet was adopted for Sindhi in the 19th century.
During the British Raj, the mosque and the adjoining fort continued to be used as a military garrison.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, the nation launched an educational television channel, Teleschool.
During the Caliphate of Ali, many Hindus of Sindh had come under influence of Islam and some even participated in the Battle of Camel.
During the Eid celebration, Muslims greet each other by saying 'Eid Mubarak', which is Arabic for "Blessed Eid".
During the Mauryan era, Gandhara held a pivotal position as a core territory within the empire, with Taxila serving as the provincial capital of the North West.
During the Mughal Empire (1526–1857), which further strengthened Persianate culture in the Indian subcontinent, the dish continued to evolve.
During the Mughal era design elements of Islamic-Persian architecture were fused with and often produced playful forms of the Hindustani art.
During the Mughal era, design elements of Persian-Islamic architecture became fused with architectural styles native to India, leading to new architectural revival.
During the Sikh Empire, Shah Burj became Ranjit Singh's favourite place, who built a harem on top of the Sheesh Mahal.
During the Sri Lanka tour in 2015, Pakistan won the Test series 2–1, the ODI series 3–2 and the T20I series 2–0.
During the Test series, Pakistan lost the first two Test by 354 runs and 9 wickets.
During the Umayyad and early Abbasid eras, the ghazal blossomed.
During the colonial era (British India), prior to the partition in 1947, decadal censuses enumerated religion in North-West Frontier Province, and not in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas.
During the colonial period, native literary figures were influenced by western literary realism and took up increasingly varied topics and narrative forms.
During the course of the tournament A, B, C and D teams of Chitral and Gilgit battle it out on the polo field.
During the day, children go from door to door singing songs and are given sweets and savouries, and occasionally, money.
During the day, people generally greet each other by saying Barka Da Sallah, which when translated means "Greetings on Sallah" in the Hausa language.
During the dominion of the Indo-Parthians, Apracharaja Sasan, as described on numismatic evidence identifying him as the nephew of Aspavarma, emerged as a figure of significance.
During the early 1970s, Pakistan was the world's fourth-largest producer of feature films.
During the early Muslim period, foreign Persian language became the lingua franca of South Asia, adopted and used by most of the educated and the government.
During the early years, Pakistan cricket team's logo was a shaheen with star and crescent on it but this crest changed in 1959.
During the festival, Ukrainian Muslims (most of whom are Crimean Tatars) often gather with loved ones.
During the final of the tournament, Pakistan Cricket Board honoured all the living test cricket captains of Pakistan by parading them in horse-drawn carriages and presenting them with gold medals.
During the later half of the 2nd millennium BCE, most of the post-urban Late Harappan settlements were abandoned altogether.
During the period of approximately 1900 to 1700 BCE, multiple regional cultures emerged within the area of the Indus civilisation.
During the preparation, Iblis (Satan) tempted Abraham and his family by trying to dissuade them from carrying out God's commandment, and Abraham drove Iblis away by throwing pebbles at him.
During the reign of Mihirakula, over one thousand Buddhist monasteries are said to have been destroyed.
During the reign of Mihirakula, over one thousand Buddhist monasteries throughout Gandhara are said to have been destroyed.
During the reign of Shah Jahan (r. 1628–1658), a "classical" Mughal style was consolidated and remained essentially in use until the end of the Mughal period.
During the reign of Xerxes I, Gandharan troops were noted by Herodotus to have taken part in the Second Persian invasion of Greece and were described as clothed similar to that of the Bactrians.
During the reign of the Sultan of Bengal Ghiyasuddin Azam Shah, the city of Sonargaon became an important centre of Persian literature, with many publications of prose and poetry.
During the rule of General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq a "program of Islamisation" of the country including the textbooks was started.
During the summer, the delta experiences intense monsoonal winds from the southwest, causing parts of the delta to be covered by sea-water.
During the winter the winds in the delta come from the northeast.
During the zamindari age, paan preparation and the style of garnishing it on a plate (paandani) was indeed a recognised folk art.
During their occupation of the fort, the Sikhs made many additions to the fort and repurposed portions of it for their own use.
During this new period of Bactrian Greek rule, several dynasties (like Antialcidas) likely ruled from the city as their capital.
During this period Mahesh Bhatt, a celebrated Indian director, visited Pakistan looking for talent - particularly singers who could lend their voices to his upcoming films in India.
During this period in the 1st century CE, Pliny the Elder notes a list of tribes in the Vahika and Gandhara regions spanning from the lower Indus to the mountain tribes near the Hindu Kush.
During this period, Sufi missionaries played a pivotal role in converting a majority of the regional Buddhist and Hindu population to Islam.
During this time period, Urdu was referred to as "Moors", which simply meant Muslim, by European writers.
During this time, Henri de La Rouche, a French cavalry officer employed in the army of Sher Singh, also used a tunnel connecting the Badshahi Mosque to the Lahore Fort to temporarily store gunpowder.
During this time, several additions were made to the Lahore Fort.
During this time, the Nastaʿlīq style of the Perso-Arabic script came into widespread use in South Asia, and the influence remains to this day.
During winter months, and generally across the northern regions of the country, men drape traditional shawls made of Pashmina or other warm materials.
Each edition is contested over several rounds, with teams eliminated in each round, and the Summit Round acting as the playoffs of the tournament and leading to the final.
Each grade has one hour of course material broadcast per day.
Each group is further divided into a number of dialects.
Each has five supplementary players held in reserve for substitution.
Each minaret is topped by a marble canopy.
Each octave in total contains 12 different notes, containing 7 natural or 'shuddha' notes (S R G M P D N), 4 flat or 'komal' notes (R G D N), and 1 sharp or 'teevra' note (M).
Each octave resonates with a certain part of the body, low octave in the heart, medium octave in the throat and high octave in the head.
Each of the Mosque's four minarets are 90 metres (300 ft) high (the tallest minarets in South Asia) and measure 10×10 metres in circumference.
Each of the major scripts currently in use is typically associated with a particular religious group, although the association is not absolute or exclusive.
Each of the six regional teams have a chief executive officer and a management committee that has been tasked with supervising all cricketing activities.
Each province has its own variant of salwar kameez such as Sindhi Salwar Khamis, Punjabi shalwar kameez, Pashtun shalwar kameez, and Balochi shalwar kameez.
Each seal has a distinctive combination of symbols and there are too few examples of each sequence to provide a sufficient context.
Each sher is self-contained and independent from the others, containing the complete expression of an idea.
Each strand has between 220 and 230 of the many-faceted nuggets, and there are about 1,600 nuggets in total.
Each stream consists of three electives and three compulsory subjects of English, Urdu, Islamiat (year 11 only) and Pakistan Studies (year 12 only).
Each teacher formed his own institution, enjoying complete autonomy in work, teaching as many students as he liked and teaching subjects he liked without conforming to any centralised syllabus.
Each team has six members with 2 to 4 reserve players in case of injury etc.
Each teams receives three points for a win and one point for a draw.
Each terrace level is 4–5 metres (13–15 feet) higher than the previous level.
Each vehicle displays complex designs and patterns, made by talented local artisans.
Early Baraf Khana (underground pits) stored ice, adapted from 'yakhchāl' for preservation.
Early Harappan communities turned to large urban centres by 2600 BCE, from where the mature Harappan phase started.
Early Mughal architecture developed from existing Indo-Islamic architecture while following the model of Timurid architecture (based in Central Asia), due in part to the Timurid ancestry of Babur.
Early Muslim thinkers viewed the idea of Pakistan, with its strong military tradition, as a guardian of South Asia.
Early fatwas and criticisms of the mawlid have taken issue with the "possibility of coerced giving" as hosts often took monetary contributions from their guests for festival costs.
Early known recipes come from Manasollasa (1130 CE) cookbook which mentions "Parika" (pakoda) and the method of preparing it with vegetables and gram flour.
Early pioneers of Pakistani art include Abdur Rahman Chughtai who painted with Mughal and Islamic styles, and Ahmed Parvez who was among the early modernists of Pakistan.
Early pioneers of Pakistani heavy metal included bands like Black Warrant, Final Cut, and Barbarians.
Early settlements in the lower Indus Valley cultivated and used Gossypium arboreum (tree cotton) to make cloth.
Education plays a crucial role in developing countries by transmitting necessary life skills to the future citizens.
Efforts to revive international cricket began gradually, with the Zimbabwe team's tour in 2015 marking the first major return of a Test nation to Pakistan since 2009.
Egyptians like to celebrate with others, so the streets are always crowded during the days and nights of Eid.
Egyptians spend the first day of Eid al-Fitr to gather all family members and celebrate the Eid at public gardens.
Eid Ul Adha is commonly known as Korbanir Eid (Bengali: কোরবানির ঈদ) among Bengalis, which means the festival of Qurbani (sacrifice).
Eid al-Adha is pronounced Eid al-Azha and Eidul Azha, primarily in Iran and influenced by the Persian language, in the Indian subcontinent.
Eid al-Adha, depending on country and language is also called the Greater or Large Eid (Arabic: العيد الكبير, romanized: al-ʿĪd al-Kabīr).
Eid al-Adha[a] (Arabic: عيد الأضحى, romanized: ʿĪd al-ʾAḍḥā, lit.
Eid al-Fitr begins at sunset on the night of the first sighting of the crescent moon.
Eid al-Fitr has a particular salah that consists of two rakats generally performed in an open field or large hall.
Eid al-Fitr is a public holiday in Suriname and Guyana.
Eid al-Fitr is a public holiday in Trinidad and Tobago, having been declared in 1962.
Eid al-Fitr is celebrated for one to three days, depending on the country.
Eid al-Fitr[b] (Arabic: عيد الفطر, romanized: ʿĪd al-Fiṭr, lit.
Eid es-Seghir is the name of Eid al-Fitr among Moroccans.
Eid festivities in Palestine and Jordan may vary culturally depending on the region, but generosity and hospitality are common in all celebrations.
Eid festivities in Saudi Arabia may vary culturally depending on the region, but one common thread in all celebrations is generosity and hospitality.
Eid is also celebrated by the much smaller Muslim community of Vietnam, which makes up less than 0.1% of the population.
Eid is an important event for Muslims in Ethiopia, who form the largest Muslim community in East Africa.
Eid is especially enjoyed by the kids, as they receive money in cash called "Eidi" as gift from their relatives and elders.
Eid is known in Indonesia as Hari Raya Idul Fitri, or more popularly as Lebaran, and is a national holiday.
Eid is popularly known as Small Sallah in Nigeria.
Eid stamps were released in 2001–2002, 2006–2009, 2011, and 2013.
Eight Sri Lankan players were injured, including Sri Lankan captain, Mahela Jayawardene.
Ekta (Unity) Day is observed to display solidarity among the Sindhi-speaking masses; the event is celebrated not only in Karachi but throughout Sindh.
Electricity was previously unavailable due to high cost of establishing power lines in the difficult-to-access area.
Emerging authors Kamila Shamsie and Daniyal Mueenuddin have garnered wide attention.
Emperor Aurangzeb, built the Alamgiri Gate, whose semi-circular bastions and domed cupolas are a widely recognised symbol of Lahore that was once featured on Pakistani currency.
Emperor Jahangir first mentions his alterations to the fort in 1612 when describing the Maktab Khana.
Emperor Jahangir ordered the construction of the massive "Picture Wall", which is considered to be the greatest artistic triumph of the Lahore Fort.
Emperor Kanishka is particularly known for his support of Buddhism.
Emperor Kanishka was a great patron of the Buddhist faith; Buddhism spread from India to Central Asia and the Far East across Bactria and Sogdia, where his empire met the Han Empire of China.
Emperor Samprati built a Jaina temple known as "Kunala Stupa" in honor of his father Kunala.
Emphasis was given to the Ahl al-Bayt with presentation of sermons and recitations of the Qur'an.
Engineer Ubaidur Rahman, appointed by Wajjid Ali, oversaw the project.
England led the series 2–0 going into the final Test.
England won the match by 6 wickets, setting the stage for future limited-overs cricket at the venue.
English became not only the medium of instruction but also the official language in 1835 in place of Persian, disadvantaging those who had built their careers around the latter language.
English has exerted a heavy influence on both as a co-official language.
English is a co-official language of Pakistan and is widely used in the executive, legislative and judicial branches as well as to some extent in the officer ranks of Pakistan's armed forces.
English is one of the official languages of Pakistan (Urdu, being the other) and has been established in the area since the British colonial era.
English is seen as the language of upward mobility, and its use is becoming more prevalent in upper social circles, where it is often spoken alongside native Pakistani languages.
Enormous collections of ghazal have been created by hundreds of well-known poets over the past thousand years in Persian, Turkish, and Urdu as well as in the Central Asian Turkic languages.
Entire families head out towards the local bazaars, markets and shopping malls.
Entrance is from the east, where the prayer hall is fronted by a courtyard with porticoes.
Entrance to the mosque complex is via a two-storey edifice built of red sandstone which is beautifully and elaborately decorated with framed and carved paneling on each of its facades.
Equestrianism had traditionally been limited to the upper-echelon of Pakistani society up until the end of the 20th century.
Equipped with courage and super powers, they battle against the odds and stand up to injustice to restore peace and harmony in their once thriving community and live a very happy life.
Established during the Vedic period, Old Taxila was for a time the capital city of ancient Gandhāra.
Established in 2002, PEMRA serves as the regulatory body responsible for issuing licenses, ensuring compliance with codes of conduct, and maintaining standards across the electronic media sector.
Established under the Press Council of Pakistan Ordinance in October 2002, the body operates on a semi-autonomous nature along with an Ethical Code of Practice signed by President Musharraf.
Estimates of the number of madrasas vary between 12,000 and 40,000.
Estimates on the Sunni population in Pakistan range from 85% to 90%.
Ethnic groups of lower Sindh can be found in the delta region: Mallaah, Mohano, Soomro, Samma and Jat.
Ethnomusicologist Regula Qureshi distinguishes between "old" tunes (purānī dhuneṅ, purānī bandisheṅ) and "tunes of nowadays" (ājkal kī dhuneṅ).
Etymologically, the word "ghazal" originates from Arabic, where it means "to flirt," and often denotes themes of love and longing in Arabic poetry.
Even now, very few Baloch read Balochi in any of the countries, regardless of the alphabet in which it is printed.
Even the children and women are dressed up in Ajrak, assembling at the grand gathering, where famous Sindhi singers sing Sindhi songs, which depict the love and progress of Sindh.
Even the song "Dil Dil Pakistan" by Vital Signs, despite, a patriotic anthem, got censored for showing young men in Western clothing.
Even with this act, these individuals are abused and are marginalized.
Even with this amount of training, there are a few criticisms regarding teacher training.
Even with this improvement, due to their low social status and inequities regarding access to education, even when they comprise half of the population, women are still facing these burdens.
Eventually it also reduced the water supply enough to cause the civilisation's demise and to disperse its population to the east.
Eventually, however, musical instrument use found its way into Qawwali.
Eventually, in February 1947, Prime Minister Clement Attlee announced that the British government would grant full self-governance to British India by June 1948 at the latest.
Eventually, the Indian government had imposed a ban on Pakistani television channels in India.
Ever since, Sindhi media groups have started to celebrate the day as ‘Sindhi Cultural Day’ or 'Ekta Day'.
Every province of the country holds its own men's and women's championships.
Every village has a hujra and is occasionally owned by a wealthy family but is shared by the entire community.
Everyone is allowed to watch such functions live by going to specific places.
Evidence of controlled preparatory cuisine in the region can be traced back to as early as the Bronze Age with the Indus Valley Civilization.
Examinations of Harappan skeletons have often found wounds that are likely to have been inflicted in battle.
Examinations were treated as superfluous, and not considered part of the requirements to complete one's studies.
Examples of historic Sunni scholars who permitted the Mawlid include the Shafi'i scholar Al-Suyuti (d 911 A.H.).
Examples of the style are found mainly in modern-day India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Afghanistan.
Examples of these include the Convention of the Rights of the Children (1989), the Millennium Development Goals (UN 1990), and the Sustainable Development Goals (2015).
Excavation of many of the sites of the Gandhara Civilization is being done by researchers from Peshawar and several universities around the world.
Excavations in 1959 in front of Diwan-i-Am led to the discovery of a gold coin dated 1025 CE belonging to Mahmud Ghaznavi.
Excavations in Takshashila support these traditions.
Executioners near the woman at the window.
Expatriate Brahui communities also exist in Iraq, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates.
Expropriating Harappa for the ASI under the Act, Marshall directed ASI archaeologist Daya Ram Sahni to excavate the site's two mounds.
Extensive fashion activities are shown in Pakistani fashion events held in different parts of the country as well as abroad.
Extensive repairs commenced from 1939 onwards, when Sikandar Hayat Khan, the Premier of the Punjab, began raising funds for this purpose.
External truck decoration can cost thousands of dollars.
Extremely controversial were the blasphemy laws, which made it treacherous for non-Muslims to express themselves without being accused of being un-Islamic.
FM broadcast licenses are awarded to parties that commit to open FM broadcasting stations in at least one rural city along with the major city of their choice.
Facebook allows its users in Pakistan to post an independence day status with a Pakistani flag icon on it or greets users in the country with a special message on the home page.
Factually, since female enrollment is so much lower compared to males across all of the provinces in Pakistan, literacy rates along with dropout rates are much higher.
Faisal Mosque was the largest mosque in the world from 1986 until 1993 when it was overtaken by the mosques in Saudi Arabia.
Families feel that these schools are unsafe for them.
Family elders will give money and gifts to children.
Famous folklores, such as that of Sassi Punnu, are often the poetic content of Punjabi folk music.
Famous spots including the mosque as a masterpiece of modern Islamic architecture, and the Pakistan Monument, which represents the country’s cultural history, add to the city’s charm.
Farid Bawa, an Indian graphic designer, collaborates with Indian truck artists to make and sell prints of truck art online in a bid to preserve the tradition of truck art.
Farjad Saif is the first player in Pakistan Table Tennis history to represent the country in the Olympics, participating in the 1988 Seoul Games.
Farmer, Sproat, and Witzel have disputed this finding, pointing out that Rao et al.
Farshi Pajama is an old traditional dress which is worn occasionally.
Farther south, along the main stem of the Indus in Sind province, the largely undisturbed site of Mohenjo-daro had attracted notice.
Faxian, a Chinese Buddhist pilgrim who visited the city via the Silk Road, had given its name's meaning as "cut-off head".
Fellow Egyptian Maliki Ibn al-Haj al-Abdari also considered Mawlid as a blameworthy innovation that was either makruh or haram, who added that the celebration was never practiced by the Salaf.
Female students are also not offered the same classes as male students in the majority of the schools.
Festivals often feature long distance horse racing and other horse-based sports.
Festivities begin almost instantly and continue all night until the morning Fajr prayer.
Festivities start the night before with chanting the Takbir and lighting lamps.
Feudalism and patriarchist leadership has made it harder for people in rural areas to receive formal education, this is especially true for females.
Field hockey in Pakistan refers to two teams, the Pakistan men's national field hockey team and the Pakistan women's national field hockey team.
Field hockey is the national sport of Pakistan; it has won three gold medals in the Olympic Games held in 1960, 1968, and 1984.
Field hockey is the national sport, and was popular for several decades, with some of Pakistan's greatest sporting accomplishments having taken place in this sport, along with squash.
Films dropped from a total output of 98 in 1979, of which 42 were in Urdu, to only 58 films of which 26 were in Urdu in 1980.
Finally it installed two 500-watt wind turbines.
Finally, he said that the month when Muhammad was born was also the month in which he died, and so implied that joy and happiness in that month are not more appropriate than sadness in that month.
Finally, one could receive their master's or Ph.D. in education.
Finally, some case markers are found in medieval Sindhi literature and/or modern poetic Sindhi, and otherwise not used in standard speech.
Finally, they would receive a bachelor's degree in education for two more years to become an elementary teacher.
Financial support came from the society at large, as well as from rich merchants and wealthy parents.
First mentioned in ancient Indian literature, it was a mixture of rice, milk and sugar.
First, as the power of the maharajahs and nawabs declined in the early 20th century, so did their patronage.
First, it makes the guest feel comfortable with the host.
Fishel Benkhald) of Karachi claims to be Pakistan's only Jew.
Fishermen have been forced to fish near the border as a result of destruction of ecosystems elsewhere in the delta.
Five sleeping chambers are aligned in a single row.
Flavoring ingredients like ginger, cardamom, and vodka are also sometimes added.
Flood-supported farming led to large agricultural surpluses, which in turn supported the development of cities.
Folk music, Balochi handicrafts, drama and Balochi cinema play a significant role in Baloch culture.
Following Butt’s removal from office in 1994, the competition reverted to its previous knockout format.
Following an exchange with the king, Phraotes is reported to have subsidised both barbarians and neighbouring states, to avert incursions into his kingdom.
Following his return to the squad, Salman Butt was appointed as vice-captain until December 2007.
Following the Indian Rebellion of 1857, the Government of India Act 1858 led to the British Crown assuming direct control over much of the Indian subcontinent.
Following the Partition of India in 1947, it found major poets and scholars were divided along the nationalistic lines.
Following the creation of Pakistan, Baloch scholars adopted the Persian alphabet.
Following the disintegration of Alexander's Macedonian Empire, Gandhara became part of the Maurya Empire.
Following the foundation of the Kushan empire by the invading Yuezhi nomads in the 1st century BCE, the Kushans adopted elements of the Hellenistic culture of the Indo-Greeks.
Following the recitation, the plague subsided within a few days.
Following this, the 1,000-Year-Old Shivala Teja Singh temple in Sialkot (which was closed for 72 years) and a 100-year-old Hindu temple in Balochistan was reopened.
Following, one or two top clubs from each province and regions are expected to feature in the season.
Food, alms, and basic necessities are also donated to the poor, a practice known as Fitrana or Zakat al-Fitr.
Football has also gained popularity in recent years, and is the second most popular sport in the country.
Football in Pakistan is as old as the country itself.
Footwear include the khussa and Peshawari chappal, which is also widely worn.
For Eid during the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, some mosques required temperature checks and for participants to socially distance.
For Muslim women, the dupatta is a less stringent alternative to the chador or burqa (see hijab and purdah).
For Urdu publishers, the use of Devanagari gives them a greater audience, whereas the orthographic changes help them preserve a distinct identity of Urdu.
For a large majority of the Muslim intelligentsia, including Iqbal, Indo-Muslim culture became a rallying ground for making the case for a separate Muslim homeland.
For a poem to be considered a true ghazal, it must have no fewer than five couplets.
For a thousand years, wheat and rice served as basic comestibles in the Indus Valley region.
For a time, Persian remained the court language of the Mughals, soon to be replaced by Urdu and English.
For champions before the Premier League see List of Pakistan football champions.
For example in Myanmar, danpauk (ဒံပေါက်) is a mainstay at festive events such as weddings.
For example, "Desi chicken" may refer to a native breed of chicken.
For example, 428 poor Hindus in Matli were converted between 2009 and 2011 by the Madrassa Baitul Islam, a Deobandi seminary in Matli, which pays off the debts of Hindus converting to Islam.
For example, Hercharn Singh became the first Sikh to join the Pakistan Army.
For example, Urban Desi is a genre of music formed by the fusion of traditional South Asian music and Western urban music.
For example, all things Indian including Indian expatriates were referred to as "desi".
For example, hijras, or males who act "feminine" are ridiculed and harassed".
For example, in the north-west, particularly in the tribal areas, it is customary for a bride to wear Firaq Partug.
For example, raga Khamaj and its variants have been classicized from folk music, while ragas such as Hijaz (also called Basant Mukhari) originated in Persian maqams.
For instance, Georg Morgenstierne notes the Pashto word مېچن mečə́n i.e.
For instance, one study of Pakistani science teachers showed that many rejected evolution based on religious grounds.
For instance, the Arabic ta' marbuta ( ة ) changes to he ( ه ) or te ( ت ).
For instance, the makers of Tehzeeb, released on 20 November 1971, were asked to change the lyrics of a song that might have proved detrimental to the diplomatic relations between Egypt and Pakistan.
For literary and religious purposes, a Perso-Arabic script developed by Abul-Hasan as-Sindi and Gurmukhi (a subset of Laṇḍā) were used.
For many years, farmers performed bhangra to showcase a sense of accomplishment and to welcome the new harvesting season.
For most aspirated consonants, Sindhi relies on unique letters as opposed to the Urdu practice of digraphs.
For official ICC tournaments, 'Pakistan' is written on the front of the jersey in place of the sponsor logo, with the sponsor logo being placed on the sleeve.
For some archaeologists, it was believed that a final flood that helped engulf the city in a sea of mud brought about the abandonment of the site.
For some youngsters Eid nights involve dancing at a club.
For some, throwing food into the fire represents the burning of the old year and start the next year on Makar Sankranti.
For the 2010–11 season the league was expanded to 16 clubs.
For the first time in the 58-year history of Pakistan there has a Sikh been selected into Pakistan's army.
For the first time in the history of Indian kabaddi, players from the North East will be playing in a tournament of this stature.
For the first time, he interpreted a Harappan stamp seal, with its unknown script, which he concluded to be of an origin foreign to India.
For the fourth time, the congregation says Allahu Akbar and subsequently goes into the ruku.
For the middle level of education it was 0.42 in the start of decade and increased to 0.68 by the end of decade, so it has improved almost 62%.
For the upholders of the Ideology of Pakistan, the existence of Pakistan is defined only in relation to Hindus, and hence the Hindus have to be painted as negatively as possible".
Foreign powers, such as the British Empire, attended Jirgas during the 18th and 19th century, in order to maintain relationships with the tribes and settle any conflicts.
Foreign satellite TV channels were added during the 1990s.
Forests have also been planted in some areas like Thal Desert to avoid soil erosion and further desertification.
Forgiveness is often requested without citing any specific error to avoid arguments.
Former Pakistan Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani had said southern Punjab is rich in cultural heritage which needs to be promoted for next generations.
Former Pakistan cricketer Danish Kaneria recently alleged mistreatment by team members and management for being a Hindu.
Former suppliers were CA Sports (2015–2019), Hunt, Slazenger and AJ Sports.
Formerly typical artifacts such as stone weights and female figurines became rare.
Found at one city is an enormous well-built bath (the "Great Bath"), which may have been a public bath.
Founded around c. 1000 BC, it is one of the oldest cities in South Asia.
Founded by Baba-e-Urdu Maulvi Abdul Haq who was first Chief Editor of the organization.
Four periods are recognised in Pakistani architecture: pre-Islamic, Islamic, colonial, and post-colonial.
Four seasonal editions are held every year.
Frescoes decorating the pavilion portray floral designs, birds, and Hindu religious themes.
Fresh fruits like apricots and cherries are transformed into jams, dried fruits, and juices, while dairy products like yogurt and cheese play a significant role in both savory and sweet offerings.
From 1591 to 1592, the Mughal empire waged a campaign to bring lower Sindh under imperial rule, resulting in the delta coming under the province of Multan and ruled by Mirza Ghazi Beg.
From 1948 to 2003, the National Football Championship was held in Pakistan.
From 1964 into the early 1990s, the National Press Trust acted as the government's front to control the press.
From 1970 to 1979, Pakistan played over 13 Test series, which they won 3, lost 5 and drew 5.
From 1981 to 1986, Khan was unbeaten and during that time won 555 consecutive matches – the longest winning streak by any athlete in top-level professional sport as recorded by Guinness World Records.
From 1984 to 2002, Pakistan held a system of separate electorates for all its national legislative assemblies, with a handful of parliamentary seats reserved for minority members.
From 1990 to 1999, Pakistan did even better.
From 1990 until 1996, he remained unbeaten in 81 matches for consecutive six years.
From 1992 to 1993, several primary school textbooks were printed in this script.
From 2002, under General Pervez Musharraf, the Pakistani media faced a decisive development that would lead to a boom in Pakistani electronic media and paved the way to it gaining political clout.
From 2009 to 2019 Pakistan was unable to host international matches in Pakistan after the terror attack on the touring Sri Lanka cricket team.
From 2025, Nepal Kabaddi League has begun as the fourth sports franchise league ever been established after Cricket, Football and Volleyball.
From 500 CE to 540 CE, the city languished after falling under the control of the Hunnic Empire ruled by Mihirakula.
From India it spread westwards to Persia and the Mediterranean.
From Season 7 onward, Coke Studio shifted to a more mainstream style, increasingly incorporating more visual communicating and Lollywood influences to attract a wider audience.
From Takka I walked towards the West for another month and arrived at the country of Sindhukula.
From a colonnaded courtyard, steps lead down to the brick-built pool, which was waterproofed by a lining of bitumen.
From a derivative of Sanskrit *चर्प (charpa, “flat”).
From a room that appears to have been set aside for bathing, waste water was directed to covered drains, which lined the major streets.
From the 16th century, Pashto poetry become very popular among the Pashtuns.
From the 1980s to the 1990s, they produced many of their highly successful and critically praised albums.
From the 3rd century CE onward, they are mostly referred to by the name Afghan (Abgan).
From the Philippines, it spread back to Taiwan, as well as onwards to the rest of Austronesia.
From the beginning of August, radio channels play milli naghmay (patriotic songs) and various TV shows and programmes highlighting the history, culture, and achievements of Pakistan are broadcast.
From the time of Ahmad Shah Durrani (1722–1772), Pashto has been the language of the court.
From then on a large number of Buddhist statues were discovered in the Peshawar valley.
From then onwards, piecemeal repairs were carried out under the supervision of the Badshahi Mosque Authority.
From there it followed the Silk Road to Persia and into the Mediterranean.
Frozen samosas are increasingly available.
Fruits such as mangos and strawberries may be added to the yogurt-water mixture to yield, for example, mango lassi and strawberry lassi.
Function words are largely postpositions marking grammatical case on a preceding nominal.
Funerary architecture is also reflected in the city's residential quarters, which borrow architectural and decorative elements from Multan's mausolea.
Further characteristics are wide prayer halls, round domes with mosaics and geometrical samples and the use of painted tiles.
Further evidence in the Chachnama makes perfectly clear that many areas of Makran as of Sindh had a largely Buddhist population.
Further excavations were carried out in 1945 by Mortimer Wheeler and his trainee, Ahmad Hasan Dani and F. A. Khan.
Further mosques include the Baro Shona Masjid; the Pathrail Mosque, the Bagha Mosque, the Darasbari Mosque, and the Kusumba Mosque.
Further research is needed to investigate the mood differences between special education institution environments and regular education institution environments.
Further, researchers have observed that Pashtun students are unable to fully comprehend educational material in Urdu.
Furthermore, Kutchi and Jadgali are sometimes classified as dialects of Sindhi rather than independent languages.
Furthermore, if a team performs two empty raids in a row, the next raider must score a point ("do-or-die raid"), or else they will be declared out and the opposing team will score a point.
Furthermore, rates of craniofacial trauma and infection increased through time demonstrating that the civilisation collapsed amid illness and injury.
Furthermore, the A-level qualification inherited from the British education system is popular in the private schools of Pakistan.
Furthermore, the same figure in East Pakistan defined their identity in terms of their ethnicity and not Islam.
Future dates are estimated according to the Umm al-Qura calendar of Saudi Arabia.
GCE and GCSE O Level, IGCSE and GCE AS/A Level are managed by British examination boards of CIE of the Cambridge Assessment and/or Edexcel International of the Pearson PLC.
Gaddafi Stadium hosted its first One Day International (ODI) on 13 January 1978, between Pakistan and England.
Gaddafi Stadium was designed by Russian-born Pakistani architect and civil engineer Nasreddin Murat-Khan, and constructed by Mian Abdul Khaliq and Company in 1959.
Gaddafi Stadium, Lahore, played a crucial role in this landmark series.
Gaddafi stadium was built in 1959 and designed by architect and civil engineer Nasreddin Murat-Khan and construction was completed by Mian Abdul Khaliq and Company.
Gama Pahalwan was an undefeated World Wrestling Champion from Pakistan.
Gama Pahalwan's nephew Bholu Pahalwan also represented Pakistan in wrestling.
Games continued to be few and far between for several seasons until a national championship began in 1953.
Gandhara (IAST: Gandhāra) was an ancient Indo-Aryan civilisation in present-day northwestern Pakistan and eastern Afghanistan.
Gandhara Buddhist artifacts were also looted by smugglers.
Gandhara was an ancient Indo-Aryan kingdom of western South Asia whose existence was attested during the Iron Age.
Gandhara was known in Sanskrit as Gandhāraḥ (गन्धारः) and in Avestan as 'Vaēkərəta.
Gandhara's culture peaked during the reign of the great Kushan king Kanishka the Great (127 CE – 150 CE).
Gandhara's first recorded culture was the Grave Culture that emerged c. 1200 BCE and lasted until 800 BCE, and named for their distinct funerary practices.
Gandhara's language was a Prakrit or "Middle Indo-Aryan" dialect, usually called Gāndhārī.
Gandharan art flourished and produced some of the best pieces of sculpture from the Indian subcontinent.
Gandharvas are presented as spirits who are musical masters, and the gandharva style looks to music primarily for pleasure, accompanied by the soma rasa.
Gandhāra is noted for the distinctive Gandhāra style of Buddhist art, which shows the influence of Hellenistic and Eastern Indo-Aryan influences from the Gangetic Valley.
Garam masala (a mixture of aromatic spices) is a popular blend of spices used in several Pakistani dishes including Bannu Pulao.
Garden), translating into 'garden of the black-eyed sweetheart'.
Gardens were a favourite concern of Mughal emperors, whether they were created as separate, dedicated garden sites or as the setting for pavilions and mausoleums within larger architectural complexes.
Geminates occur only after stressed centralised vowels, and are phonetically realised much less markedly than in the rest of the Punjabi area.
Gemination of a consonant (doubling the letter) is indicated with adhak in Gurmukhi and tashdīd in Shahmukhi.
General Paolo Avitabile had his private residence quarters decorated with figures of scantily clad dancing girls and Indic deities in the act of making love.
Generally, -o stems are masculine and -a stems are feminine, but the other final vowels can belong to either gender.
Generally, 8–10 courses are selected by students at GCE O Levels and 3–5 at GCE A Levels.
Generally, a student entered Taxila at the age of sixteen.
Georg Morgenstierne claimed that Tirahi is "probably the remnant of a dialect group extending from Tirah through the Peshawar district into Swat and Dir".
Ghanarang Baba was founder of this prestigious Gharana.
Ghararas, are similar, except the pants are tight at the thighs and flare from the knee.
Ghazal "Gayaki", the art of singing or performing the ghazal in the Indian classical tradition, is very old.
Ghazal couplets end with the same rhyming pattern and are expected to have the same meter.
Ghazal music originally adhered to the Hindustani classical tradition, employing ragas (melodic modes) and talas (rhythmic cycles), typically at a slow, contemplative tempo.
Ghazal poems are performed in Uzbek-Tajik Shashmakom, Turkish Makam, Persian Dastgah and Uyghur Muqam.
Ghazal singing and Qawwali are also important expository forms of Urdu poetry.
Ghazal[a] is a form of amatory poem or ode, originating in Arabic poetry that often deals with topics of spiritual and romantic love.
Ghazals are popular in South Asian film music.
Ghazals have been used in music throughout South Asia and has become a genre of its own, simply called "Ghazal" which refers to the music genre.
Ghazals in the Arabic form have also been written in a number of major West African literary languages like Hausa and Fulfulde.
Ghazals in the Kannada language were pioneered in the 1960s by poet Shantarasam, though recordings of their poetry only began to be made in the early 2000s.
Ghazals were also written by Hamza Shinwari, He is known as the father of Pashto Ghazals.
Ghazals were also written by Moti Ram Bhatta (1866–1896), the pioneer of Nepali ghazal writing in Nepali.
Ghizer is famous for kelawo (also spelled kilao), walnuts dipped in honey and mulberry juice.
Ghulam Ali and Saadi Abbas have won gold medals at the SAF Games.
Ghulam Mohammad was the captain of team Sind and Frank Tarrant was the captain of Tarrant's team.
Giddha is also a famous dance from Punjab.
Gifts and donations are normally exchanged.
Gifts and sweets are brought for friends while toys are brought for children.
Gilgit Baltistan is rich in unique food and dishes, each district of Gilgit Baltistan has their cultural dish that symbolizes the people.
Gilgiti cuisine is the cuisine of Gilgit-Baltistan, Pakistan.
Girdas and lavas are served with butter.
Girls are often kidnapped by complicit acquaintances and relatives or men looking for brides.
Girls decorate their hands with Mehendi.
Given this disappointing trajectory, increasing public expenditure on education to 7 percent of GDP would be nothing less than a miracle but it is not going to be of godly nature.
Global policy makers are aware that teachers promote human rights and ethics and should receive a course in their teacher training programs about basic human rights.
God's vintage loneliness has turned to vinegar– All the archangels– their wings frozen– fell tonight.
God, limit these punishments, there's still Judgment Day– I'm a mere sinner, I'm no infidel tonight.
Going one step further, this also includes the right to recognition as a transgender person.
Gondophares, founder of the Indo-Parthian Kingdom, conquered Taxila around 20 BCE, and made Taxila his capital.
Good cricket, positive cricket and we will win".
Good shingras are distinguished by flaky textures akin to that of a savory pie crust.
Goshpi Avari won the medal with her husband, Byram, at the 1982 Games.
Goswamy argues that painting in the Punjab goes back to the 16th century and became influenced by the Mughal school in the early half of the 18th century.
Government buildings including the Parliament House, Supreme Court, President House and Prime Minister's Secretariat are decorated and illuminated with lights and bright colours.
Government patronage and funding for sports are at an all-time low, resulting in outdated equipment, obsolete training methods, and dilapidated sports infrastructure.
Government schools tend to be overcrowded and a far distance for children.
Great Rann of Kutch lies east of Indus delta.
Greek historians accompanying Alexander described Taxila as "wealthy, prosperous, and well governed".
Gregory Possehl was the first to theorize that the floods were caused by overuse and expansion upon the land, and that the mud flood was not the reason the site was abandoned.
Grierson also maintained that "Lahnda" was his novel designation for various dialects up to then called "Western Punjabi", spoken north, west, and south of Lahore.
Growing censorship policies against displays of affection, rather than violence, came as a blow to the industry.
Guests may be invited to a wedding reception by offering a few areca nuts with betel leaves.
Gulab Jamun emerged in medieval India during the Mughal Empire, blending Persianate influence with local influences that eventually became gulab jamun.
Gulab jamun gets its brownish red colour because of the sugar content in the milk powder (khoya).
Gurdwara Dera Sahib and Gurdwara Panja Sahib are other prominent examples.
Gökböri was the brother-in-law of Saladin and soon the festival began to spread across the Muslim world.
H. S. Bhatti believes the andrla and bahrla ghar division method is a later development.
Ha-du-du has no definite rules and is played with different rules in different areas.
Haathi Meray Saathi produced and distributed by Eveready Pictures celebrated its Golden Jubilee bringing audience back to the cinema for 66 weeks.
Haleem has become a popular dish in the cities of Hyderabad, Telangana and Aurangabad, Maharashtra (Aurangabad, the first capital of Hyderabad State) in India.
Haleem is also very popular in Bangladesh, especially during the holy month of Ramadan, when it is a staple dish.
Haleem is sold as a snack food and street food in Pakistani bazaars throughout the year.
Haleem is sold as a snack food in bazaars throughout the year.
Haleem is traditionally cooked in large, wood-fired cauldrons.
Haleem or halim is a type of stew that is widely consumed in South Asia, the Middle East and Central Asia.
Handball was first played in 1984 in an exhibition event, and was taken up by the Pakistan Olympic Association.
Harappa and Mohenjo-daro share a similar architectural layout and were generally not as heavily fortified as other Indus Valley sites.
Harappan civilisation is sometimes called Mature Harappan to distinguish it from the earlier cultures.
Harappan engineers followed the decimal division of measurement for all practical purposes, including the measurement of mass as revealed by their hexahedron weights.
Harappan houses had keyhole ovens with central pillars which was used for roasting meats and baking breads.
Harappans had many trade routes along the Indus River that went as far as the Persian Gulf, Mesopotamia, and Egypt.
Harees was traditionally made with meat, wheat, and sometimes lentils, slow-cooked until soft and porridge-like in consistency.
Hari Maulaud Nabi is a public holiday in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands.
Hariraya is characterized by the giving of gifts (known as Eid), food sharing (salu-salo), and visiting the elderly and the sick.
Haroon Rahim was a very successful player, he was the winner of several ATP Singles and Doubles titles.
Harrison points to the enthusiasm in the Lokakṣema sūtra corpus for the extra ascetic practices, for dwelling in the forest, and above all for states of meditative absorption (samādhi).
Harvard archaeologist Richard Meadow points to the late Harappan settlement of Pirak, which thrived continuously from 1800 BCE to the time of the invasion of Alexander the Great in 325 BCE.
Hasan Ali was named as player of the tournament.
Hasan Ali, Pakistan's star find in this tournament took the final wicket finishing with figures of 3–19, leaving India 180 runs short of the target and handing Pakistan their first Champions Trophy.
Hashim Khan was the first Pakistani to dominate the sport.
Hashim defeated 4 times winner the current champion Mahmoud Karim of Egypt in devastating fashion, 9-5, 9-0, 9-0.
Having been a squash coach in the British Army, when Pakistan gained independence he joined as a coach for the Pakistan Air Force.
He [Jinnah] wanted to see the Muslims of the world united under the banner of Islam as an effective check against the aggressive designs of their enemies.
He added another bronze medal to his collection at the 2022 Commonwealth Games.
He adds that the kingdom had become a dependency of Kashmir with the local leaders fighting amongst themselves for power.
He also holds a record 13 national titles also being the only individual to win the title 7 times in a row.
He also identified the site of Taxila in the 1860s.
He also invented the Ommaya Reservoir medical procedure.
He also ordered the use of Sindhi in official documents.
He also said that excellence lied in devotional acts.
He also scored 134 runs against the same team in the final match of that tournament.
He also started teaching at Taxila in the later period.
He also stated that even 'democratic' and 'liberal' Indians refuse to carry a single Pakistani news channel on their cable or any Pakistani op-ed writers in their newspapers.
He also took 11 wickets in the tournament.
He also twice contested elections for the Punjab assembly.
He also went on to say that English would be taught alongside Urdu in schools.
He also won Pakistan's first ever World Championships medal, a silver at the 2023 World Athletics Championships.
He also won a bronze medal at the 2001 World Games.
He also won the highest award for international collaboration of China.
He asked about what connections there might have been between percussion instruments and the month of Muhammad's day of birth.
He assumed the position following Abdagases I.
He broke the record for the highest score of any first-time participating country.
He chose 14 August as the date of the ceremony of power transfer to Pakistan because he wanted to attend the ceremonies in both India and Pakistan.
He claimed that his mother is Jewish (making him Jewish by Jewish custom) but, his father is a Muslim.
He claimed to represent the Buddhists of Pakistan by founding and chairing the "Pakistan Buddhist Society" from 1996 until his death in 2012.
He dated the Harappa ruins to a period of recorded history, erroneously mistaking it to have been described earlier during Alexander's campaign.
He described it not as compulsory, meritorious, or permitted, and therefore as reprehensible or forbidden.
He did exceedingly well eventually ending the Olympic games with a ranking of 25th in the world.
He did not disapprove of preparing a banquet and inviting people to participate.
He discovered separate Greek, Parthian, and Kushan cities and a large number of stupas and monasteries.
He drives in the ARCA RE/MAX Series and is a former two-time Southwest Formula Mazda Regional Series champion.
He finished with an unbeaten 111 off 62 balls.
He found that over 60% of people in East Pakistan (modern day Bangladesh) professed to have a secular national identity.
He founded the Aligarh Muslim University, then called the Anglo-Oriental College.
He further said, "Nobody with civilized and courteous manners approves of this.
He has been awarded 4 time Iranian national techno-entrepreneurship award Sheikh Bahai by Minister of Science and Research, Iran and Young Entrepreneur from the Deputy Minister for Youth Affairs.
He has over 1200 research papers, books and patents attributed to him, that have won him over 34,000 citations and h index of 74.
He has played for Cartier in the St. Moritz Snow Polo World Cup and the Commonwealth team in the Royal Salute Coronation Cup, both of which were won by his team.
He has vast experience of teaching and research.
He has won gold medals at the Asian Games twice.
He holds PhD in Cell and Molecular Biology and holding two MSc (Biotechnology) and MA (Political Sciences-IR).
He is a Fellow of Pakistan Academy of Sciences, and Institute of Mathematics and its Applications (U K).
He is additionally noteworthy for coming into conflict with Samkaravarman of the Utpala dynasty, resulting in his victory and the latter's death in Hazara and was the first Shahi noted by Kalhana.
He is also a councillor for Chak number 75 DB, Union Council number 88.
He is also the official representative of the World Horseback Archery Federation (WHAF) in Pakistan.
He is credited with systematizing some aspects of Hindustani music and also introducing several ragas such as Yaman Kalyan, Zeelaf and Sarpada.
He is depicted as a great ruler with strength to the standard where kings of other regions would seek shelter in his capital of Udabhanda, a change from the previous capital of Kabul.
He is the first scientist to connect brain cells to a silicon chip.
He is the only Pakistani and one of three non-Iranian who were enlisted as the most talented non-Iranian in Iran by the office of Vice president of Iran.
He knew that the realisation of that was the source of progress and prosperity for the British.
He later used the building for the state treasury.
He made additions to the Lahore Fort and also commissioned one of the thirteen gates which were later named after him (Alamgir).
He noted that it had some time previously been a subject of Kapisa.
He noted that the Hindi-Urdu controversy contributed to increasing divisions between the two communities, which continued to widen over time.
He objected to certain things, such as singers performing to the accompaniment of percussion instruments, pointing to their blameworthiness.
He promoted Western-style education in Muslim society, seeking to uplift Muslims economically and politically in British India.
He quoted, "I have come to the conclusion that Pakistan is no place for Hindus to live in and that their future is darkened by the ominous shadow of conversion or liquidation".
He recorded some events that took place in Gandhara and provided details about its last royal dynasty and capital Udabhandapura.
He regarded Urdu as a symbol of Muslim heritage in the Indian subcontinent.
He renamed the gardens as 'Shahla Bagh' (شہلا باغ), from Persian 'shahla' (lit.
He represented Pakistan at the 2022 World Games held in Birmingham, United States.
He retrieved an image of Rishabhanatha from Takshashila and established it as the principal deity at the principal shrine amongst Shatrunjaya temples.
He said that it was reprehensible when a person observed at their own expense without doing more at the gathering than to eat and abstain from doing anything sinful.
He said that the coming of Muhammad was a good benefaction and said that only the day ought to be observed.
He said the support staff, including the head coach Intikhab Alam and bowling coach Aaqib Javed, played a role in shaping the team's victory.
He said, they did not do good as something impermissible cannot be condoned.
He states that the Army suffered heavy losses in the war.
He studied how copper was acquired, processed, and used for diverse items, such as tools and prestige goods.
He systematically designed forts and towns in similar symmetrical styles that blended Indian styles with outside influences.
He took a triple-wicket maiden and there were two run-outs, and eventually five wickets fell in the final over of Australia's innings.
He tried to transform the Muslim outlook from a mediaeval one to a modern one.
He undertook extensive research visits to a large number of gharanas, Hindustani as well as Carnatic, collecting and comparing compositions.
He used advanced techniques such as Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), to understand production, consumption, and trade in copper ore.
He was a scholar who wrote a fatwa on the Mawlid, which became one of the most important texts on this issue.
He was buried in the large Hauz Khas Complex in Delhi, with many other buildings from his period and the later Sultanate, including several small domed pavilions supported only by columns.
He was elected as Fellow of the Royal Society (London) in 2006 and won the UNESCO Science Prize in 1999.
He was known as Ghazal Samrat (the Emperor of ghazals) for his exposition of the ghazal form of poetry and its adaptation to the Marathi language.
He was placed at 18th in the Qabaq Track, 19th in the Kassai Track and 20th in the Korean Serial Track out of 45, including qualifiers.
He was ranked number 1 in the world for six years.
He was regarded as a hero in Punjab, for rescuing girls from being forcibly taken to be sold in slave markets of the Middle East.
He was said to have personal a preference for white marble in architecture, as in the Taj Mahal.
He wears an armband, and a cloak with drilled trefoil, single circle and double circle motifs, which show traces of red.
He went on to win British Open titles, 6 titles over 8 years.
He won the seat from Tharparkar-II and thus became the first non-Muslim to win a general seat (non-reserved) in Pakistan national assembly.
He won two bronze medals at the Asian Judo Championships and two gold medals at the South Asian Games.
He wrote that Taxila's name translated as "the Severed Head", and was the site of a story in the life of Buddha "where he gave his head to a man".
He's freed some fire from ice in pity for Heaven.
He's left open– for God– the doors of Hell tonight.
Heavy Mechanical Complex is also located in Taxila city.
Hence if the Eid falls in the first ten days of a Gregorian calendar year, there will be a second Eid in the last ten days of the same Gregorian calendar year, as happened in 2000 CE.
Hence, diphthongs like ai and au get monophthongised into /eː/ and /oː/, and āi and āu into /ɛː/ and /ɔː/ respectively.
Henna is a "woman's" thing in Afghanistan when it comes to doing designs on their hands and feet.
Her daughter, Shahida Parveen, possesses her mother's command of the form and her devotional urge.
Her work has earned her national recognition and admiration.
Here Hindu temple columns (and possibly some new ones) are piled up in threes to achieve extra height.
Here is a list of Pakistani fashion institutes.
Here is a list of Pakistani fashion media.
Here is also where special dishes unique to this country are served, such as kelupis with prawn or tahai (smoked sardinella) sambal and curry.
Heritage Museum (Urdu: لوک ورثہ عجائب گھر), also known as Lok Virsa Museum, is a museum of history and culture located in the Shakarparian Hills of Islamabad, Pakistan.
Heritage properties suffered destruction during the rule of military regime in Pakistan.
Heritage varieties of vegetables and other produce can also be qualified as "desi".
Herodotus states that during the battle they were led by the Achamenid general Artyphius.
High alert is declared in sensitive areas such as the country's capital, to restrict security threats.
High-ranking officials also constructed major monuments, as with the example of the Wazir Khan Mosque.
Higher costs, water scarcity and unpredictable weather have made betel gardens less lucrative.
Highest numbers of ODI Matches played in a venue is another record kept by this venue.
Hindi became the distinct register spoken by those who sought to construct a Hindu identity in the face of colonial rule.
Hindkowans, also known as the Hindki, is a contemporary designation for speakers of Hindko dialects of Western Punjabi, primarily living in the Hazara region of northern Pakistan.
Hindu community leader Sudham Chand protested against the system but was murdered.
Hindu homes and temples were also attacked in Quetta.
Hindu patrons often mixed aspects of Hindu temple architecture and traditional Hindu palace architecture with Mughal elements and, later, European ones.
Hindu students are often forced to study as per the Islamic curriculum.
Hindu voters were 49% of the total in Umerkot and 46% in Tharparkar.
Hinduism is the second largest religion affiliation in Pakistan after Islam.
Hinduism is the second largest religion in Pakistan after Islam.
Hindus and other minorities achieved a rare political victory in 2002 with the removal of separate electorates for Muslims and non-Muslims.
Hindus are also found in smaller numbers in Balochistan, Punjab, and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Hindus are found in all provinces of Pakistan but are mostly concentrated in Sindh.
Hindus have spoken of vulnerability to kidnapping and forced conversions.
Hindus in Pakistan are primarily concentrated in Sindh, where the majority of Hindu enclaves are found.
Hindus make use of paans as offerings in worship.
Hindustani classical music (also known as North Indian classical music or Shastriya Sangeet) is the classical music of the Indian subcontinent's northern regions.
Hindustani classical music forms like qawwali (Sufi devotional music) and ghazal (love poetry) are popular, as are Punjabi, Pashto, Sindhi and Balochi regional music.
Hindustani classical music is an integral part of the culture of North India and is performed across the country and internationally.
His 1966 film Armaan was one of the most cherished Urdu films to ever be released.
His Firoz Shah Palace Complex (started 1354) at Hisar, Haryana is a ruin, but parts are in fair condition.
His advisor, Kautilya/Chanakya, was said to have taught at Taxila's university.
His books on music, as well as the Gandharva Mahavidyalaya music school that he opened in Lahore in 1901, helped foster a movement away from the closed gharana system.
His disciple Ilahi Jamadar continued the tradition, blending Urdu and Marathi verses in his work.
His empire survived him in a fragmented manner until the last independent Greek king, Strato II, disappeared around 10 CE.
His eyes might have originally been inlaid.
His footprints were subsequently consecrated by Bahubali who erected a throne and a dharmachakra ('wheel of the law') over them several miles in height and circumference.
His grandson Akbar commissioned extensive construction projects, and Mughal architectural style developed significantly during his reign.
His guidelines are widely used in Eastern and Western Balochistan.
His literature is considered to be progressive in its tone and spirit.
His poems, known as Kafi are still famous.
His team has found ancient ovens at Harappan sites which are similar to the tandoors that are used in the state of Punjab.
His victory was celebrated nationally, including by his daughter, Mahoor Shahzad, an Olympian who represented Pakistan at the 2020 Tokyo Games.
His visit to Pakistan was to coincide with the third Kara Film Festival where he screened his film Paap in Karachi.
Historians such as Heinrich Zimmer and Thomas McEvilley believe that there is a connection between first Jain Tirthankara Rishabhanatha and the Indus Valley Civilisation.
Historically, during the 19th-century, revenue for winter crops was collected either on Lohri or Maghi.
Historically, school and club cricket has also suffered due to inconsistencies in top tier domestic cricket.
Historically, the Sufi missionaries had played a pivotal role in converting the native peoples of Punjab and Sindh to Islam.
Historically, traders or bookkeepers wrote in a script known as kiṛakkī or laṇḍā, although use of this script has been significantly reduced in recent times.
Historically, various local Brahmic scripts including Laṇḍā and its descendants were also in use.
Hoffman examined a large collections of copper/bronze artifacts from Harappa, covering the timeline from 3300 to 1700 BCE, and challenged some older broad interpretations of bronze production.
Home economics is sometimes taught to female students, whereas topics related to astronomy, environmental management and psychology are frequently included in textbooks of general science.
Home to some of the world's most sacred gurdwaras, Sikhs have a become a crucial part in Pakistan's religious tourism with large numbers coming to the country particularly during festivals.
Honours degrees require four years of study, and students normally specialize in a chosen field of study, such as Biochemistry (BSc Hons.
Horror films were introduced with the release of Zinda Laash, making it the first Pakistani film to display an R rating tag on its posters.
Hot gulab jamun is often served with vanilla ice cream, or kulfi.
House or abode) and either Turkic 'mar' (lit.
Houses opened only to inner courtyards and smaller lanes.
How journalist in Pakistan are openly shot, who speak against the Pakistani Army.
However Pakistan defied the odds and defeated Australia, courtesy of a brilliant bowling display.
However Ranjit Singh remained unconvinced, believing that the name was derived from the Punjabi words 'shala' (lit.
However basic and crude their working conditions were, Kardar believed in his work and in 1929 he produced the first silent film in Lahore under his studio's banner, Husn Ka Daku (Mysterious Eagle).
However during the 5th and 6th centuries CE, Jibin was often considered synonymous with Gandhara.
However following the controversial tenure of the interim normalisation committee installed by FIFA, reportedly a parallel short-term franchise based league has also been discussed.
However it was Shoaib Mansoor to the rescue again with his 2011 film Bol which broke box office records in Pakistan.
However mutton, soup, tea and kymyz (horse milk) are also popular food and drinks during the holiday.
However the Indus Delta saw an increase in number of mangroves after preservation and plantation initiatives.
However the function of the female figurines in the life of Indus Valley people remains unclear, and Possehl does not regard the evidence for Marshall's hypothesis to be "terribly robust".
However, Balochi was still spoken at the Baloch courts.
However, Ibn al-Haj affirms the auspicious qualities of the month of the Mawlid in the most effusive terms.
However, India would qualify for final meaning the Champions Trophy final would not be held at the stadium as initially intended but in Dubai instead.
However, Kot Diji-style wares were found in greater numbers, and the Kot Diji-style forms show signs of having been wheel-thrown, marking a clear technological change from the Period I material.
However, Pakistan ended the tour on a positive with a 1–0 win in the two-match test series.
However, Pakistan won the matches by 221 runs and 356 runs.
However, Pakistan's pan-Islamist sentiments were not shared by other Muslim governments at the time.
However, Pakistan's parliament blocked the bill.
However, Pakistanis do not speak Arabic.
However, Pakistanis with a dish receiver can still watch it and can continue to access its website and web stream.
However, Urdu and English are the two official languages of Pakistan.
However, Urdu poetry is cherished in both the nations.
However, a century after this division, Kujula Kadphises of the Kushan tribe emerged victorious by destroying the other four Yuezhi tribes and consolidating his reign as king.
However, a devastating plague struck the city, leading to widespread death and chaos.
However, a recent acoustic study of six Punjabi speakers in the United States found no evidence of a separate falling tone following a medial consonant.
However, a remarkably large number of words are unique to Pashto.
However, a smooth transition to predominantly pictureless Islamic architecture occurred.
However, according to Pakistani newspaper DAWN, 5,000 Hindus migrate to India every year seeking safety from religious persecution.
However, according to other scholars the pakol guard no links with the Kausia.
However, after Hyatt's departure at the end of Season 6, the show took a different direction.
However, after the research, male students are more likely to attend low-cost private schools than female students.
However, almost all emigrated to Israel after 1948.
However, as in other cultures, actual weights were not uniform throughout the area.
However, before the tournament started, India's participation was put in doubt.
However, before this act, the Pakistani government recognized five different genders.
However, bonus points do not revive players.
However, certain dialects which exert stronger tone, particularly more northern Punjabi varieties and Dogri, pronounce h as very faint (thus tonal) in all cases.
However, discrimination is increasingly prevalent throughout Pakistan, including in Sindh.
However, due to a decrease in terrorism in Pakistan over the past few years, as well as an increase in security, many teams have toured Pakistan since 2015.
However, due to the lack of professional football clubs, football was mainly held on amateur basis.
However, early in November 2017, reports announced that the West Indies team would not be travelling to Pakistan over security concerns.
However, fashion magazines have largely managed to avoid this decline and continue to maintain a stable readership.
However, for non-ICC tournaments and matches, the 'Pepsi' logo feature prominently on the front of the shirt .
However, from 1994 to 2003 total print circulation increased substantially, particularly for dailies (3 million to 6.2 million).
However, he said that it was right to honor and distinguish the day of birth because it showed respect for the month.
However, his fatwa may have received widespread approval and may not have provoked any conflicts.
However, in 2011, Reporters Without Borders listed Pakistan as one of the ten most deadly places to be a journalist.
However, in Central and Eastern Punjab, as well as in the cuisine of the Muhajir community—Indian immigrants primarily settled in Karachi, the country's financial hub—the food is often spicy.
However, in Khuzdar District and Kalat District, Hindus face discrimination.
However, in November 2019, government of Pakistan started the restoration process for 400 Hindu temples in Pakistan.
However, in West Pakistan (current day Pakistan) the same figure professed to have an Islamic and not a secular identity.
However, in recent years some progress has been made in trying to fix this problem.
However, in the 1950s the constitution was amended to include the Bengali language.
However, in the fourth Test, the spot-fixing took place.
However, in the presence of their own family members it may be taken off.
However, in the third year, the Turks devastated the city.
However, it evolved into a semi-government channel as SRBC did not renew its agreement with SSI.
However, it has seen a resurgence in recent years, with increased political activism and the formation of parties like Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan.
However, it is important to note that these erotic-based murals were limited mostly to the areas frequented by the upper-classes of the Punjabi society at the time.
However, it is now known that these might have been due to modern contamination of sample materials.
However, it is unlikely to happen because the levels of spending have had remained significantly unpredictable and unsteady in the past.
However, it is widely spoken and understood as a second language across the country and serves as a symbol of national identity for all the Pakistanis.
However, it just took seven days to turn things around for the Pakistani's.
However, it should be mentioned that different tribes have different types of turbans unique to them, as such tribal styles have been persevered for centuries.
However, its authenticity is disputed by scholars such as David Neil MacKenzie and Lucia Serena Loi.
However, its popularity, even among native speakers, has been gradually declining since the Bengali language movement in the 20th century.
However, lately, there has been a decline in results, with the national team failing to qualify for both the 2016 and 2020 Olympics.
However, looking beyond binary genders, there is the case of transgender individuals in Pakistan.
However, many have criticised the Clause 12(iii) of the Hindu Marriage Bill which says that "a marriage will be annulled if any of the spouses converts to another religion".
However, many of those who converted still worship Valmiki and celebrate Valmiki Jayanti.
However, many students, especially in rural areas, do not have access to the Internet.
However, most are jailed for a year, and their boats are sold at an auction.
However, neither position is universally agreed upon.
However, non-Muslims have served as judges in the High Courts and Supreme Court.
However, nowadays it is often seen on elder ladies or nomads normally referred to as Kochi.
However, on 14 October 2017, the Sri Lankan team expressed their reluctance to travel to Pakistan, requesting that the fixture is moved to a neutral venue.
However, organisations seeking to preserve the dialect have begun transcribing the dialect in the Bengali script.
However, other Afghan ethnic groups have also however adopted the Pashtun turban style.
However, outside of Indo-Aryanist circles, the concept of "Lahnda" is still found in compilations of the world's languages (e.g.
However, owing to the influence of the Persian language over the subcontinent, Sindhi has adapted many words from Persian and Arabic.
However, people residing in urban areas also celebrate Lohri, as this festival provides the opportunity to interact with family and friends.
However, qawwali has remained a predominantly male business and there are still not many mainstream female qawwals.
However, rising salinity destroyed the local agriculture and the port was lost to the encroaching Arabian sea by 2006.
However, scholars soon started to reject Wheeler's theory, since the skeletons belonged to a period after the city's abandonment and none were found near the citadel.
However, shingaras filled with beef liver are very popular in some parts of the country.
However, since 1998, when Jansher Khan was defeated in the British Open final, Pakistan squash has fallen from its height and now no longer is the dominant force in squash.
However, some other scholars see it as a recent migrant language to its present region.
However, the 1980s were also the time of rapid political change in Pakistan, driven by the Islamization policies of President Muhammad Zia Ul Haq, who came to power through a coup d'état in 1977.
However, the Bangladeshi version of halim differs from other areas slightly as the meat and bones are stewed and kept as small pieces instead of mashing them with the lentil soup.
However, the Deobandi and Salafi movements and Hanbali school consider the Mawlid a reprehensible bid'a (innovation) and prohibit its observance.
However, the Hindko-speaking community belonging to the Hazara region of northern Pakistan are recognised collectively as Hazarewal.
However, the Indus Valley Civilisation did not disappear suddenly, and many elements of the Indus civilisation appear in later cultures.
However, the Press Council never came into operation due to the reservations of the media organisations.
However, the absence of a Bronze Age in South India, contrasted with the knowledge of bronze making techniques in the Indus Valley cultures, calls into question the validity of this hypothesis.
However, the actual population of Scheduled Caste Hindus is expected to be much higher, as the Scheduled Caste Hindus categorise themselves as Hindus in the census rather than as Scheduled Caste .
However, the bill failed to make it into law as the Governor returned the bill.
However, the cultural influence of Greater Gandhara extended as far as the Bamyan valley in the west and the Karakoram range in the northeast.
However, the dish later gained widespread popularity and eventually became a staple of the royal cuisine of Mughal-era nawabs.
However, the efforts by a few proponents, especially from the Dagar family, have led to its revival.
However, the evidence of sea-borne trade involving the Harappan civilisation is not firm.
However, the main significance of these festivities is the expression of love for Muhammad.
However, the most significant changes to the ghazal occurred in its introduction into Iran in the 10th century.
However, the presence of Gandhāra among the list of Achaemenid provinces in Darius's Behistun Inscription confirms that his empire had inherited this region from Cyrus.
However, the press freedom in Pakistan continues to decline.
However, the public did not respond and low attendance at cinemas were recorded as the lower middle class shunned these films.
However, the region experienced a resurgence under the Turk Shahis and Hindu Shahis.
However, the religion further declined following the Muslim conquests in the Indian subcontinent.
However, the samosas sold in the west and north of the country mostly contain minced meat-based fillings and are comparatively less spicy.
However, the shalwar kameez has now become popular across the Indian subcontinent.
However, the shers all contain a thematic or tonal connection to each other, which may be highly allusive.
However, the stadium's name was not changed.
However, the team is regularly ranked in the top 10 in the world.
However, the text also characterises them as weak and easily conquered with their political allegiance never being constant.
However, their No.1 rank was short-lived, as their downfall began.
However, there are no laws and amendments made to register a marriage between two Hindus – from one Province to another (Islamabad Capital Territory, Balochistan, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and Punjab).
However, there does not seem to be gender segregation in the schools that were visited in a study cited.
However, there have been numerous reforms to attempt to raise the quality of education in Pakistan.
However, there is a dissent among Muslim scholars regarding the obligatory nature of this sacrifice.
However, there is much folklore about Lohri.
However, there is the lack of upkeep of the dilapidated Hindu temples in the city.
However, there may be a current possible solution to the gender gap throughout Pakistan.
However, these people usually call their traditions as well as language as Jataki.
However, this ban was lifted by Hanif Ramay yet was re-instated shortly after.
However, this doesn't apply to all aspirated consonants.
However, those forms of the ghazal are looked down on by purists of the Indian classical tradition.
However, variations of lassi can be prepared in different ways.
However, when the defenders had vacated the fort, a fierce battle ensued when Alexander broke the treaty.
However, with the Urdu film hub largely shifting to Karachi by 2007, the film industry in Lahore became synonymous with the Pakistani Punjabi film Industry.
However, with the increase in demand for fast fashion products and cheaper items, chemical dyes have been utilised in Ajrak products.
Huge statues of the Buddha were erected in monasteries and carved into the hillsides.
Hujras are guest houses for men, used to entertain.
Humayun (r. 1530–1540, 1555–1556) expanded ice imports from Kashmir to Delhi and Agra, insulating blocks with straw and saltpetre to slow melting, a Persian technique.
Humayun's tomb is the tomb of the Mughal Emperor Humayun in Delhi, India.
Hussain Shah won the bronze medal in the Middleweight division at the 1988 Summer Olympics, becoming the country's first ever and to date the only Olympic boxing medalist.
Hyderabad Telangana is noted for its grand milad festivities.
I beg for haven: Prisons, let open your gates– A refugee from Belief seeks a cell tonight.
I have a deep knowledge [je possède à fond] of the common tongue of India, called Moors by the English, and Ourdouzebain by the natives of the land.
I have seen in a dream that I ˹must˺ sacrifice you.
I tried to capture the spirit, proportion, and geometry of Kaaba in a purely abstract manner.
I wonder what was the place where I was last night, All around me were half-slaughtered victims of love, tossing about in agony.
I would like to see the Punjab, North-West Frontier Province, Sind and Baluchistan amalgamated into a single state.
ICFJ has also established the Center for Excellence in Journalism (CEJ) in Karachi, Pakistan.
ISO 15919 Romanisation of Urdu is a scholarly transliteration system that accurately represents the pronunciation of Urdu letters using diacritics and special markers for vowels and nasal sounds.
Ibn Jubayr, in 1183, writes that Muhammad's day of birth was celebrated every Monday of Rabi' al-Awwal at his birthplace, which had been converted priorly into a place of devotion under the Abbasids.
Ibn al-Hajj (c. 1250/56-1336) praised carrying out ceremonies and expressions of gratitude during the festival but rejected the forbidden and objectionable matters that took place at it.
Ibn al-Jazari (d. 833 A.H.), a Syrian Shafi'i scholar considered the celebration of the Mawlid to be a means of gaining Paradise.
Ibn-e-Safi and Shakeel Adilzada of Sabrang Digest (1960s) was Pakistan's early popular pulp fiction writers.
Ice was harvested in Lahore from shallow ice pans and stored in straw-lined pits.
Ideas from British and American philosophy greatly shaped philosophical development in Pakistan.
If a team gets all seven players on the opposing team out ("All Out"), they earn two additional points and then all the opposition players are placed back in the game.
If a tight band is not used, the ends of the suthan fit closely around the ankles.
If a word is inherited from Sanskrit, the level of speech is considered more colloquial and personal.
If a word is of Persian or Arabic origin, the level of speech is considered to be more formal and grander.
If all these conditions are met, Sima' is permissible.Someone complained to the Sultan of the Mashaa'ikh that some of the dervishes danced in a gathering where there were musical instruments.
If not enough is given, the householder will be given an ultimatum to either give more or the rope will be loosened.
If not enough is given, then the boy who has his face smeared will try to enter the house and smash clay pots or the clay stove.
If the defender successfully manages to tackle the five raiders in a single game, it is a high 5, and the team will be awarded one extra point.
If the raider is successfully stopped (tackled), the opposite team earns a point instead.
If the tailor's taste or skill is displayed, this will be seen in the shape of the neckline and the decoration of the kameez.
If there is only one percussionist, he plays the tabla and dholak, usually the tabla with the dominant hand and the dholak with the other one (i.e.
If they do go to school, this also affects their academic performance.
If they do, they are limited due to cultural norms and pressures.
Ifrah Wali made history by becoming the first winner of the Giant Slalom event at any South Asian Winter Games when she won gold at the inaugural games held in India.
Images of the Sikh royals and military were documented in these British-patronized local paintings.
Immediately afterwards, the studio released the film Sarfarosh (Brave Heart) in 1930; in 1931, the films Farebi Daku (Mysterious Bandit) and Khooni Katar (The Bloody Dagger) were released.
Immigrant communities in Pakistan partake in the festivities as well.
Imposition of new registration laws for film producers requiring filmmakers to be degree holders, where not many were, led to a steep decline in the workings of the industry.
Imran Aslam, editor of The News International, said the author wrote the script in a "haze of hashish".
Imran Khan has been named in the ICC Cricket Hall of Fame.
Imran Khan told the team to play like "cornered tigers", after which Pakistan won five successive matches, including the semi-final against hosts New Zealand and the final against England.
In 1207, the Turkic general Gökböri started the first annual public festival of the Mawlid in Erbil.
In 1333 AD, the Samma Dynasty ruled all of the delta, and established their capital first at Samu-i (on the south bank of Keenjhar Lake) and later at Thatta.
In 1606, Guru Arjan of the Sikh faith was imprisoned at the fort before his death.
In 1715, a complete literary Diwan in Rekhta was written by Nawab Sadruddin Khan.
In 1739, the region, along with many others, was ceded to Nadir Shah.
In 1806 Maharaja Ranjit Singh ordered the Shalimar Gardens to be repaired.
In 1818, he built a marble edifice in the Hazuri Bagh facing the mosque, known as the Hazuri Bagh Baradari, which he used as his official royal court of audience.
In 1829, Masson traveled through the princely state of Punjab, gathering useful intelligence for the Company in return for a promise of clemency.
In 1835 Lord Macaulay's minute recommending that Western rather than Oriental learning predominate in the East India Company's education policy had led to numerous changes.
In 1838–39, a British visitor hired local Punjabi artists to produce pictures covering the various kinds of inhabitants of northern India using British-supplied paper and bound into an album.
In 1842, Masson included his observations of Harappa in the book Narrative of Various Journeys in Baluchistan, Afghanistan, and the Punjab.
In 1843, the British conquest of Sindh led the region to become part of the Bombay Presidency.
In 1848 Cunningham found Gandhara sculptures north of Peshawar.
In 1849, the British seized control of Lahore from the Sikh Empire.
In 1857, the chapati likely may have played a role in the Indian mutiny Chapati Movement.
In 1868, the Bombay Presidency assigned Narayan Jagannath Vaidya to replace the Abjad used in Sindhi with the Khudabadi script.
In 1877, on Saint Thomas' Day at Westminster Abbey, London, Rev.
In 1927, a seated male soapstone figure was found in a building with unusually ornamental brickwork and a wall-niche.
In 1938, however, the official use of Balochi was discontinued.
In 1939, a small representative group of artefacts excavated at the site was transferred to the British Museum by the Director-General of the Archaeological Survey of India.
In 1946, Sajjad Gul's father Agha G. A. Gul set up Evernew Studios on Multan Road.
In 1947, after Pakistan was created out of British India, Lahore became the hub of cinema in Pakistan.
In 1947, the Indus delta, along with rest of Sindh became a part of Pakistan.
In 1950, Sir Mortimer Wheeler identified one large building in Mohenjo-daro as a "Great Granary".
In 1951, seventy-two Muslims were charged with the murder of eleven Christians after communal riots over agricultural land erupted.
In 1953 Sir Mortimer Wheeler proposed that the invasion of an Indo-European tribe from Central Asia, the "Aryans", caused the decline of the Indus civilisation.
In 1955, Pakistan's first television showcase occurred near Mazar-e-Quaid on September 16, organized by the American consulate in Karachi.
In 1955, Pashtun intellectuals including Abdul Qadir formed the Pashto Academy Peshawar on the model of Pashto Tolana formed in Afghanistan.
In 1956 Australia toured Pakistan and played one test, which Pakistan won.
In 1956, 23 March also became the date on which Pakistan transitioned from a dominion to a republic, and is known as Pakistan Day.
In 1964, the first official television station began broadcasts in Lahore, followed by Dhaka in 1965.
In 1969, an international competition was held in which architects from 17 countries submitted 43 proposals.
In 1972, a bill was passed by the provincial assembly of Sindh which saw Sindhi, given official status thus becoming the first provincial language in Pakistan to have its own official status.
In 1974, the Department of Pashto was established in the University of Balochistan for the promotion of Pashto.
In 1974, the government of Pakistan amended the Constitution of Pakistan to define a Muslim according to Qu'ran 33:40, as a person who believes in finality of Muhammad under the Ordinance XX.
In 1975, Islamiat or Islamic studies was made compulsory, resulting that a large number of minority students being forced to study Islamic Studies.
In 1976 the first of three hat-tricks was taken at the stadium, by Peter Petherick of New Zealand against Pakistan on 9 October.
In 1980 the Heritage Foundation Pakistan was founded to help conserve the traditional Architecture of Pakistan.
In 1980, Government of Pakistan nominated the fort for inclusion in UNESCO World Heritage Site based on the criteria i, ii, and iii together with the Shalimar Gardens.
In 1980, UNESCO designated Taxila as a World Heritage Site.
In 1980s Zia ul-Haq introduced a system under which non-Muslims could vote for only candidates of their own religion.
In 1981 the Shalamar Gardens were inscribed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site as they embody Mughal garden design at the apogee of its development.
In 1981 the Shalimar Gardens were inscribed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site as they embody Mughal garden design at the apogee of its development.
In 1981, the fort was inscribed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site for its "outstanding repertoire" of Mughal monuments dating from the era when the empire was at its artistic and aesthetic zenith.
In 1982, the federation was affiliated with the Pakistan Olympic Association (POA) and Pakistan Sports Board (PSB).
In 1983, legendary actor Waheed Murad died, which was yet another blow to the cinema industry.
In 1983, the PCB became one of the founding members of the ACC.
In 1986 it was supplemented by a new blasphemy provision also applied to Ahmadi Muslims (See Persecution of Ahmadis).
In 1987, Pakistan went to India for five match series.
In 1987, the Pakistan Television Academy was founded for training in the evolving medium.
In 1988, after West Indies tour where they drew 1–1 (3), Pakistan were rated as No.1 Test team.
In 1989, Mammad Sherdil, a teacher from the Turkmen SSR, approached Balochi language researcher Sergei Axenov with the idea of creating a Cyrillic-based alphabet for Balochi.
In 1990, PTN initiated the first private TV slot through an agreement with Inter-flow, giving rise to Network Television Marketing (NTM).
In 1990, the government launched the semi-government TV network "Peoples Television Network" (PTN) under Shalimar Recording Company, now Shalimar Recording and Broadcasting Company.
In 1990–91, the female to male ratio (F/M ratio) of enrollment was 0.47 for primary level of education.
In 1991-1992, PTV Network introduced a comprehensive satellite broadcasting service, launching PTV-2 as Pakistan's first satellite channel in 1992.
In 1993, the Government of Pakistan included the Badshahi Mosque in the tentative list for UNESCO World Heritage Site.
In 1993, the mosque was included in a tentative list as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
In 1995–96, the Gaddafi Stadium was renovated by architect Nayyar Ali Dada, who was qualified from National College of Arts, for the 1996 Cricket World Cup.
In 1996, Ali compiled and edited the world's first anthology of English-language ghazals, published by Wesleyan University Press in 2000, as Ravishing DisUnities: Real Ghazals in English.
In 1997, Pakistan celebrated its 50th anniversary of independence.
In 1998, Iqbal Qaiser recorded nearly 200 historical Sikh shrines in Pakistan in his book Historical Sikh Shrines in Pakistan after five years of research.
In 1998, PTV collaborated with a private company (Prime Entertainment Network) to initiate PTV Prime, catering exclusively to European audiences and later expanding to American viewers.
In 1999, Pakistan abolished this system.
In 1999, a Russian-Pakistani joint venture was produced and Samina Peerzada's Inteha.
In 1999, financial losses led to the shutdown of NTM, causing STN to cease CNN International broadcasts and limit programming from BBC World and DW TV.
In 2000, The government of Pakistan opened up new ways for the media industry of Pakistan by allowing private TV channels to operate openly even to telecast their own news and current affairs content.
In 2000, the marble inlay in the main prayer hall was repaired.
In 2002, Pakistan participated in their second Asian Test Championship.
In 2002, a conference was held to help standardize the script that would be used for Balochi.
In 2002, this was upgraded to a public national holiday by Republic Act No.
In 2003, Pakistan fielded a national team for the first time, participating in the Provincial Tournament in Sri Lanka.
In 2003, as much as 109,000 tonnes of tea were consumed in Pakistan, ranking it at seven on the list of tea-consuming countries in the world.
In 2004, Mohammad Tanveer of Pakistan won a silver medal in the Mistral Asian Championship held in Bombay.
In 2004, the site was added to the tentative list for UNESCO World Heritage Sites.
In 2005 season, the National A Division Football League was renamed to the Pakistan Premier League.
In 2005, Channel-3 ceased operations, leading Shalimar Recording and Broadcasting Company to rebrand its TV channel as ATV through a joint venture with SSI.
In 2005, PTV Prime became an independent entity, and in 2006, PTV launched PTV Global exclusively for Americas and Europe.
In 2005, a controversial amusement park scheme at the site was abandoned when builders unearthed many archaeological artefacts during the early stages of building work.
In 2005, the A1 Team Pakistan was run by Adam Langley-Khan, Khan remained the Team Pakistan driver until 2008.
In 2006, Ratna Bhagwandas Chawla became the first Hindu woman elected to the Senate of Pakistan.
In 2006, the Pakistan Football Federation introduced the National Club Championship as a third tier beneath the PFF League.
In 2007, PTV-1 was rebranded as PTV Home, while PTV World went off air temporarily, resuming in 2012-13 as Pakistan's sole English language/pure satellite channel.
In 2007, the Pakistan Government enacted the Sikh marriage act that allows Sikh marriages in Pakistan be registered.
In 2008 the Pakistani government partially lifted its 42-year ban on screening Indian movies in Pakistan.
In 2008, the Diocese was divided, and Pakistan came under the jurisdiction of newly formed Eastern Orthodox Metropolitanate of Singapore and South Asia.
In 2009, The Foxy Shahzadi, a 1974 VW Beetle decorated in a truck art style, travelled from Pakistan to France in a 25-day journey.
In 2009, a series of attacks killed eight Christians in Gojra, four women, three men and a child.
In 2009, the Lashkar-e-Islam led by Mangal Bagh demanded that Sikhs in the Aurakzai tribal region in FATA pay them the jizya (poll tax levied by Muslims on non-Muslim minorities).
In 2009, the Senate of Pakistan's broadcasting division appealed to the Parliament of India to lift the ban.
In 2010, Hyderabadi haleem was awarded Geographical Indication status by the Indian GI registry office.
In 2010, the Ministry of Education's Department of Basic Education and Burma's Anti-Narcotics Task Force collaborated to prohibit betel shops from operating within 50 metres (160 ft) of any school.
In 2010, the Taliban attacked many minorities including Sikhs resulting in two beheadings.
In 2011, Saadi Abbas Jalbani became the first ever Asian Champion from South Asian region at the 2011 Asian Championships in Quanzhou, China.
In 2011, responsibility for the preservation of the site was transferred to the government of Sindh.
In 2011, the Government of Pakistan closed the Ministry of Minority Affairs.
In 2011, the Guinness Book of Records recorded the Sharjah stadium as hosting the greatest number of one-day matches.
In 2012, India began debating whether to reverse the ban on Pakistani television channels.
In 2012, Pakistani archaeologists warned that, without improved conservation measures, the site could disappear by 2030.
In 2012, it was also made additional official language of West Bengal in areas where the population exceeds 10% of a particular block, sub-division or district.
In 2013, a Sufis and Shrines Hall was established within the Pakistan National Museum of Ethnology, popularly known as the Heritage Museum.
In 2013, a suicide bombing at a church in Peshawar left more than 100 people dead, and a series of attacks at churches in Lahore in 2015 left 14 dead.
In 2013, the Pakistani drama Humsafar was dubbed into Arabic and broadcast by MBC in the Middle East as Rafeeq-Al-Rooh.
In 2013, the issue of women doctors in Pakistan was highlighted in local and international media.
In 2014 it was reported that Pakistan had changed head coach 27 times since 1992, with a number of coaches sacked midway through tournaments or series and several coaches serving multiple stints.
In 2014, Pakistan Medical and Dental Council introduced a gender-based admission policy, restricting women to 50% of available seats (based on the gender ratios in general population).
In 2015, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government introduced Ethics as an alternative subject to Islamiat for non-Muslim school children in the province followed by Sindh in 2016.
In 2016, Afghanistan changed their home ground to Greater Noida Sports Complex Ground in Noida, India.
In 2016, Google introduced the first automated translator for Sindhi language.
In 2016, LA Weekly ranked Khan as the fourth greatest singer of all time.
In 2016, Pakistan became No.1 Test team after their tour of England, where they drew series 2–2 (4).
In 2016, it was reported that Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority (PEMRA) had banned all of the Christian television stations.
In 2017, PCB Chairman had announced that West Indies would tour Pakistan for 3 match T20I series which were scheduled to be played in Lahore, the fixtures were to be played in November 2017.
In 2017, it was announced that Thailand would assist in conservation efforts at Taxila, as well as at Buddhist sites in the Swat Valley.
In 2017, the Pakistani government announced its intention to develop Taxila into a site for Buddhist religious pilgrimage.
In 2017, the Punjab legislative assembly passed the Anand Karaj act thereby allowing the Sikh marriage in Punjab province be registered.
In 2017, the number of Buddhist voters was stated to be 1,884, and they were mostly concentrated in Sindh and Punjab.
In 2018 a Hindu woman, Krishna Kumari Kohli, became the first non-Muslim woman to win a women's reserved seat in the Senate of Pakistan.
In 2018, Pakistan general election Mahesh Kumar Malani became the first Hindu candidate who won a general seat in Pakistan National Assembly 2018.
In 2018, for first time NUST, Islamabad was ranked among top 100 QS Asia University rankings at 91.
In 2019, India passed the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 that allows the persecuted Pakistani Hindus and Sikhs who arrived in India before the end of December 2014 to obtain Indian citizenship.
In 2019, a bill against forced conversion was proposed by Hindu politicians in the Sindh assembly, but was turned down by the ruling Pakistan Peoples Party lawmakers.
In 2019, a study was published by Shinde et al.
In 2019, six regional teams were created on provincial lines.
In 2019, the Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said that his government will reclaim and restore 400 temples to Hindus.
In 2021, a franchise T20 tournament based in Kashmir was launched, titled the Kashmir Premier League.
In 2022, Joyland became the first Pakistani film to be screened at the Cannes Film Festival.
In 2022, he created a Commonwealth Games record with a throw of 90.18 m and became the first ever athlete from South Asia to breach the 90m mark.
In 2023, the Pakistan Football Federation launched the National Futsal Cup, the first nationwide futsal competition organised under its authority.
In 2024, it announced a plan to hold a 2025 Kabaddi World Cup in India in January 2025.
In 2024, the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee listed twenty-one operational gurdwaras on its website.
In 2024-25 efforts were made to renovate the stadium for the upcoming 2025 ICC Champions Trophy.
In 2025, the Government of Sindh introduced new vehicle registration plates featuring an ajrak-inspired design to highlight Sindh's cultural heritage and promote regional identity.
In 326 BCE, it was claimed by Alexander the Great, after overthrowing the Achaemenids.
In 327 BCE, Alexander the Great's military campaign progressed to Arigaum, situated in present-day Nawagai, marking the initial encounter with the Aspasians.
In 34 Tests between that first match and December 2000, Pakistan won 17 and were never beaten.
In 516 BCE, Darius I embarked on a campaign to conquer Central Asia, Ariana and Bactria, before marching onto what is now Afghanistan and northern Pakistan.
In 644 AD, the Rashidun caliphate conquered Makran after defeating the kingdom of Sindh in the battle of Rasil.
In 712 CE, a young Arab general Muhammad bin Qasim conquered most of the Indus region for the Caliphal empire, to be made the "As-Sindh" province with its capital at Al-Mansurah.
In Afghanistan, Balochi is still written in a modified Arabic script based on Persian.
In African nations, gifts are given among friends and family is invited to feasts.
In April 1995, the Yangon City Development Committee banned betel in Yangon (Rangoon), in anticipation of Visit Myanmar Year 1996, a massive effort to promote the country as a tourist destination.
In Araria district, Bihar, there is a plurality of Urdu speakers and near-plurality in Hyderabad district, Telangana (43.35% Telugu speakers and 43.24% Urdu speakers).
In Argentina, Eid (Spanish: Fiesta del Fin del Ayuno) is officially a non-working holiday for Muslims.
In Ashoka's subsequent tenure as emperor, he appointed his son as the new governor of Taxila.
In Assam, India, betel nut is traditionally offered as a mark of respect and auspicious beginnings.
In August 2003, the PFF came under new management, as the politician Faisal Saleh Hayat took over.
In August 2017, PCB along with ICC started to improve international cricket in Pakistan.
In Aurangzeb's reign (1658–1707) squared stone and marble was replaced by brick or rubble with stucco ornament.
In Awadh (encompassing modern eastern Uttar Pradesh), Lucknow emerged as a centre of Ganga-Jamuni culture and Urdu/Hindustani literature.
In Bahrain, families often celebrate the festival with an eid dinner consisting of quzi or machboos rice dishes, while popular sweets include halwa or khanfroosh (see Bahraini cuisine).
In Balochistan province, Hindus are relatively more secure and face less religious persecution.
In Bangladesh paan is traditionally chewed not only as a habit but also as an item of rituals, etiquette and manners.
In Bangladesh, Eid is celebrated with great pomp and festivities.
In Bangladesh, Kabaddi is known with a different name called "Ha-du-du".
In Bangladesh, Pantua is available almost everywhere throughout the country, which can be referred to a Bengali variation of Gulab jamun.
In Bangladesh, paan is chewed throughout the country by all classes and is an important element of Bangladeshi culture.
In Bengali, Gulab Jamun is known as Kalo Jam or Pantua, which is similar to gulab jamun, and could be called a Bengali variant of that dish.
In Bosnia and Herzegovina, Eid al-Fitr is locally known as Ramazanski bajram.
In Britain, British Asian women from the Punjab region of the Indian subcontinent have brought the dress to the mainstream, and even high-fashion, appeal.
In Britain, the Bishop Emeritus of Rochester, Michael Nazir-Ali, is a Pakistani Christian.
In British colonial India, there were waves of conversions to Christianity among the Chuhra and Chamar between the 1870s and 1930s in the Punjab Province and United Provinces of Agra and Oudh.
In Brunei, the Omar Ali Saifuddien Mosque also incorporates Mughal influences.
In Cambodia, the earliest evidence of betel nut chewing is from around 2,400 to 2,200 BP.
In Canada, desis have established sizable ethnic enclaves in areas such as Brampton, Ontario (suburban Toronto) and Surrey, British Columbia (suburban Vancouver).
In Chinese, Gandhara is known as Jiāntuóluó (traditional Chinese: 犍陀羅; simplified Chinese: 犍陀罗, also written 健馱邏; 健驮逻), with the Middle Chinese pronunciation reconstructed as kɨɐndala.
In Chitral, Wakhan and Sirikol the men wear very small scanty turbans.
In Christopher Shackle's analysis, Saraiki distinguishes up to 48 consonants and 9 monophthong vowels.
In Dagestan, eggs with bright stickers is a popular traditional dish served there during Eid al-Fitr.
In December 2010, realizing the importance of mangrove conservation, the Government of Sindh declared all the mangrove forests in the Indus Delta as "Protected Forests", under the Forest Act of 1927.
In December 2020, a mob in Karak District attacked and set fire to a Hindu temple which was originally demolished in 1997 before being restored by the Pakistan Supreme Court in 2017.
In Eastern Balochi, it is noted that the stop and glide consonants may also occur as aspirated allophones in word initial position as [pʰ tʰ ʈʰ t͡ʃʰ kʰ] and [wʱ].
In English, the word is pronounced /ˈɡʌzəl/ or /ˈɡæzæl/.
In February 2006, a school teacher in the village of Sembian-Kandiyur in Tamil Nadu, discovered a stone celt (tool) with an inscription estimated to be up to 3,500 years old.
In Gandhara, Mahayana Buddhism flourished and Buddha was represented in human form.
In Gilgit, Astor, and the greater part of Yaghestan the rolled woollen cap mentioned by Mr. Drew is commonly worn.
In Goa (India), Portugal, and Angola, samosas are known as chamuças.
In Greek, Gandhara was known as Paropamisadae.
In Hyderabad, the Asaf Jahi dynasty became exceedingly wealthy and were one of the richest royal families in the world by the mid-20th century.
In India, Punjabi Sikhs use Gurmukhi, a script of the Brahmic family, which has official status in the state of Punjab.
In India, Punjabi is one of the 22 scheduled languages of India.
In India, Punjabi is written in the Gurmukhī script in offices, schools, and media.
In India, Urdu has not diverged from Hindi as much as it has in Pakistan.
In India, Urdu is spoken in places where there are large Muslim minorities or cities that were bases for Muslim empires in the past.
In India, a person may write a Sindhi language paper for a Civil Services Examination in either script.
In India, haleem prepared in Hyderabad during the Ramadan month, is transported all over the world through a special courier service.
In India, it excludes many of the dialect-specific features of Majhi.
In India, the Devanagari script is also used to write Sindhi.
In India, truck art has evolved into a digital style, mixing traditional motifs with computer-generated imagery.
In Indonesia, it is common the congregation recite Simthud Durar, especially among Arab Indonesians.
In Indonesia, special dishes include ketupat, rendang, opor ayam and gulai are served with gathering with other people and give some money to their relatives.
In Iran, the dish was popular until the 16th century, but by the 20th century its popularity was restricted to certain provinces (such as the sambusas of Larestan).
In Iraq, kleicha (the traditional snack) and lamb are popular foods.
In Islamic tradition, it honours the willingness of Abraham to sacrifice his son as an act of obedience to God's command.
In January 1972, a clandestine crash programme and a spin-off to literary and the scientific revolution as response to that crash programme led Pakistan becoming the nuclear power.
In January 2014, a policeman standing guard outside a Hindu temple at Peshawar was gunned down.
In July 2017, China's culture was showcased at the PNCA.
In July 2019, the SLC sent a security expert to assess the situation in Pakistan, with Sri Lanka Cricket saying they were "likely" to play a Test match in the country.
In June 2014, the Khudabadi script of the Sindhi language was added to Unicode, However as of now the script currently has no proper rendering support to view it in unsupported devices.
In June 2024, PCB announced that Gaddafi Stadium will be upgraded for the upcoming 2025 ICC Champions Trophy.
In June 2024, PCB announced that the Gaddafi Stadium will be upgraded for the upcoming ICC Champions Trophy 2025.
In June 2024, the Punjab Assembly passed a resolution to allow lawmakers to communicate in Punjabi.
In Kalash region, women wear embroidered long shirts.
In Karachi, drives are initiated to clean and prepare the Mazar-e-Quaid (Jinnah Mausoleum) for the celebration.
In Karachi, nihari became a large-scale success and soon spread in prominence and availability across Pakistan.
In Kashmir, the outfit consists of the phiran, poots and shalwar.
In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa they number more than 1,000 each in the districts of Buner and Peshawar.
In Kyrgyzstan the day is known as Orozo Ait (Kyrgyz: Орозо айт).
In Lebanon, many concerts take place during Eid al-Fitr by Lebanese and other Arab superstars.
In Makrán they use Persian and Makranic.
In Malaysia, children are given token sums of money, also known as "duit raya", from their parents or elders.
In Malaysia, especially in the major cities, people take turns to set aside a time for open house when they stay at home to receive and entertain neighbours, family and other visitors.
In March 2009, militants attacked the touring Sri Lankan cricket team, after which no international cricket was played in Pakistan until May 2015, when the Zimbabwean team agreed to a tour.
In March 2009, the Sri Lanka cricket team were attacked by terrorists while travelling to the Gaddafi Stadium in Lahore.
In March 2013, a group of around 20 Buddhist monks from South Korea made the journey to the monastery of Takht-i-Bahi, 170 kilometers (106 miles) from Islamabad.
In March 2017, the Pakistani President Mamnoon Hussain signed the Hindu Marriage Bill and thereby making it a law.
In March 2018, the PCB confirmed that the fixtures would take place in April at the National Stadium in Karachi after the conclusion of PSL 2018.
In March 2022, the PCB began the process to rename the stadium for sponsorship reasons.
In March 2024, Maryam Nawaz announced the introduction of Punjabi as a subject in schools.
In March, Siyaah (meaning Pitch black) was the first horror thriller film to be released in Pakistan in over 20 years.
In May 2018, the Super Kabaddi League was first held in Pakistan, as part of a larger push to promote renewed interest in the sport in Pakistan.
In May 2019, at the Asian Cricket Council (ACC) meeting in Singapore, the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) made a request to Sri Lanka Cricket (SLC) to play the two Test matches in Pakistan.
In May 2024, Pakistan qualified for the final of the 30th Sultan Azlan Shah Hockey 30th Sultan Azlan Shah Hockey Cup 2024 trophy 2024 trophy in Ipoh, Malaysia.
In May, Pakistan's first 3D computer animated film was released.
In Metro Manila, the celebrations are usually held at the Manila Golden Mosque and the Quirino Grandstand.
In Misbah's first series against South Africa in UAE 2010, he led the two match Test series to draw 0–0.
In Nepal, Urdu is a registered regional dialect and in South Africa, it is a protected language in the constitution.
In Nepal, it tends to be thicker and uses fewer ingredients.
In Nepal, samosa was introduced to by the Indian merchants and communities who migrated to Nepal, such as the Marwari people, and it quickly became a very popular snack.
In New York City, alternate side parking (street cleaning) regulations are suspended on Eid.
In Nigeria, it is usually served in parties along with chicken or beef, puff puff, spring rolls and plantains and are called small chops.
In Northern India, it is made in various ways.
In Northern Pakistan, the annual Shandur Polo Festival at Shandur Top is an international event attended by enthusiasts from all over the world.
In November 1989, Sachin Tendulkar and Waqar Younis played their first test match in this stadium.
In November 1997, the 1997 Wills Golden Jubilee Tournament was held in Gaddafi Stadium, Lahore to mark the golden jubilee.
In November 2004, it participated in the 19th Asian Championship in Hong Kong.
In November 2011, Pakistani cable television operators blocked the BBC World News TV channel after it broadcast a documentary, entitled Secret Pakistan.
In November 2016, a bill against forced conversion was passed unanimously by the Sindh Provisional Assembly.
In November 2019, PCB confirmed the dates and venues for the Test series.
In November 2025, Maryam Nawaz again pushed for the inclusion of Punjabi language education in Pakistan's educational institutions.
In October 1998, Radio Pakistan started its first FM transmission.
In October 2017, a photo exhibition from Colombia titled 'Amazing Amazon' was held at PNCA.
In October 2019, the PCB proposed hosting the two Test matches in Pakistan, instead of the UAE, at venues in Rawalpindi and Karachi.
In October 2022, the National Bank of Pakistan and the PCB agreed to a five-year naming-rights agreement, and the stadium was renamed as National Bank Cricket Arena.
In October 2024, the Punjab province's assembly passed a resolution to make Punjabi an official subject across more sectors of the education system as a compulsory subject.
In Old Persian, Gandhara was known as Gadāra (𐎥𐎭𐎠𐎼, also transliterated as Gandāra since the nasal "n" before consonants were omitted in Old Persian).
In Pakistan and Deccan region of India, Urdu poetry is written in the standard Nasta'liq calligraphy style of the Perso-Arabic script.
In Pakistan applying henna is a famous tradition amongst women.
In Pakistan, Haleem is available all year round, as well as in most Pakistani restaurants around the world.
In Pakistan, Pashto is spoken by 18.1% of its population, mainly in the northwestern province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and northern districts of Balochistan province.
In Pakistan, Pashto is the first language of around 18.1% of its population (per the 2023 census).
In Pakistan, Punjabi Muslims use Shahmukhi, a variant of the Perso-Arabic script and closely related to the Urdu alphabet.
In Pakistan, Punjabi loans technical words from Persian and Arabic, just like Urdu does.
In Pakistan, Sindhi is the first language of 34.40 million people, or 14.6% of the country's population as of the 2023 census.
In Pakistan, almost everything in Urdu is written in the script, concentrating the greater part of Nastaʿlīq usage in the world.
In Pakistan, an Urdu based Nastaʿlīq script is used in writing.
In Pakistan, children receive Eidi which is money and gifts given from elders.
In Pakistan, gender discrimination in education occurs among the poorest households.
In Pakistan, main courses are usually served with wheat bread (either roti or naan) or rice.
In Pakistan, only the national broadcasters are allowed to use terrestrial airwaves.
In Pakistan, samosas are a staple iftar food for many Pakistani families during the month of Ramzan.
In Pakistan, the quality of education has a declining trend.
In Pakistan, the relationship between education and religion is complex and deeply intertwined, particularly in rural and impoverished areas.
In Pakistan, the samosas of Karachi are famous for their spicy flavour, whereas samosas from Faisalabad are noted for being unusually large.
In Pakistan, the standard is closer to the Majhi spoken in the urban parts of Lahore.
In Pakistan, the traditional wedding ceremony is celebrated by wearing different clothes in each wedding event.
In Pakistan, these ornate buses and trucks feature beloved folk art.
In Pakistan, upper and middle-class women in towns wear burqas over their normal clothes in public.
In Pashto cinema, filmmakers were able to get around the censor policies and filled their films with soft-core pornography to increase viewership.
In Pashto, most of the native elements of the lexicon are related to other Eastern Iranian languages.
In Period 3, Harappa phase, the settlement reached 150 hectares.
In Peshawar, capital of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Hindus enjoy religious freedom and live peacefully alongside the Muslims.
In Punjab and Karachi, during the event of baraat, grooms may wear traditional sehra on their heads, and brides may normally wear a shalwar kameez.
In Punjab, Lohri is marked by eating sheaves of roasted corn from the new harvest.
In Punjab, Pakistan it is not observed at the official level but Sikhs, Hindus and some Muslims observe the festival in rural Punjab and in the cities of Faisalabad and Lahore.
In Punjab, Sikhs are concentrated in the cities of Hasan Abdal and Nankana Sahib, where they form over 1% of population; and the districts of Lahore and Sialkot.
In Punjab, over 3,000 government school buildings have been declared structurally unsafe amid the 2025 monsoon season, putting students and teachers at serious risk.
In Punjab, people wear their brightest clothes and come to dance the bhangra and giddha to the beat of the dhol.
In Punjab, the yogurt is traditionally made from water buffalo milk.
In Punjabi cinema, Sultan Rahi and Anjuman became iconic figures of this culture.
In Punjabi, tone is induced by the loss of [h] in tonal consonants.
In Qayrawan, Tunisia, Muslims sing and chant hymns of praise to Muhammad, welcoming him in honor of his birth.
In Rajasthan, instead of soaking gulab jamun balls in sugar syrup, they are cooked in gravy made from spices, nuts and tomato to make popular Gulab Jamun ki Sabzi.
In September 1965, following the war between Pakistan and India, all Indian films were completely banned.
In September 2015, a case was filed in Supreme Court of Pakistan against Government of Punjab, Pakistan as it did not take any step to implement the Punjabi language in the province.
In September 2016, however, Zindagi dropped all Pakistani shows from their line-up.
In September 2017, the fixtures were confirmed, with the final T20I match of the series scheduled to be played in Lahore.
In September 2019, the Pakistan Cricket Board named it as one of the venues to host matches in the 2019–20 Quaid-e-Azam Trophy.
In September, Pakistan travelled to Zimbabwe for 2 T20Is and 3 ODIs.
In Shia Islam, the salat has six Takbirs in the first rakat at the end of Tilawa, before rukūʿ, and five in the second.
In Sindh and Southern Punjab, there is a community of Buddhists called Baori Buddhists that live primarily in the outskirts of the Mandi Yazman and Rahimyar Khan of Rohi region.
In Sindh the largest Sikh population is found in Karachi.
In Somalia and other Islamic parts of the Horn region, Eid al-Fitr is observed by the Muslim communities.
In South Asia, the dupatta is also employed as a form of modesty—although it is made of delicate material, it obscures the upper body's contours by passing over the shoulders.
In Sudan, where 97% of the population is Muslim, preparations for Eid begin the last few days of Ramadan.
In Super 8s stage, Pakistan lost to England, and New Zealand, only won against South Africa.
In Sylhet, Nunor Bora and Handesh are traditionally served as snacks during tea times or addas.
In Tajikistan the holiday is known as Idi Ramazon and is a national holiday.
In Test matches, the team wears cricket whites, with an optional sweater or sweater-vest with a green and gold V-neck for use in cold weather.
In Thailand the dish is known as khao mhok (Thai: ข้าวหมก), using chicken, beef or fish, topped with fried garlic and served with a green sour sauce.
In Turkey, nationwide celebrated holidays are referred to as bayram, and Eid al-Fitr is referred to as both Ramazan Bayramı ("Ramadan Bayram") and Şeker Bayramı ("Bayram of Sweets/Sugar").
In Ukraine, Eid al-Fitr (Ukrainian: Рамазан-байрам) as well as Eid al-Adha have been official state holidays since 2020.
In Vedic texts such as the Shatapatha Brahmana, it is mentioned that the Vedic philosopher Uddalaka Aruni (c. 7th century BCE) had travelled to the region of Gandhara.
In West Bengal, two types of betel leaves are produced.
In West Papua, the leaf may be replaced with stem and inflorescence of the Piper betle plant.
In Western Madhya Pradesh and Malwa, Mawa Bati is popular as local version of Gulab Jamun.
In Xinjiang province, Eid al-Fitr is even celebrated by the Han Chinese population.
In Yemen, Bint al-sahn is the preferred snack during Eid celebrations.
In Yemen, Mawlid al-Nabi, the celebration of Muhammad's birthday, is one of the most significant events of the year and is home to the largest Mawlid gathering in the world.
In Yunnan, Muslim populations are spread throughout the region.
In Zanzibar it is popular for locals to buy new clothing, while women would shop for handbags, necklaces and other clothing.
In a kacchi biryani, layers are arranged in a pot which is then sealed and cooked slowly (Dum cooking) for the food to steam in its own liquid.
In a longer conversation, differences in formal vocabulary and pronunciation of some Urdu phonemes are noticeable, though many native Hindi speakers also pronounce these phonemes.
In a message on the launch of Saraiki channel by Pakistan Television (PTV) in Multan, he is reported to have said that the step would help promote the rich heritage of 'Saraiki Belt'.
In a news article published in December 2022, there was an estimated 30,000–35,000 Sikhs in Pakistan according to Gurpal Singh.
In a pakki biryani, the ingredients are cooked separately (at least in part) and then arranged in layers.
In a second wave, from the 10th through the 12th centuries, the Ghaznavids overtook Gandhara and Punjab.
In a sense both Saraiki and Standard Panjabi are "dialects" of a "Greater Punjabi" macrolanguage.
In a very significant number among the nearly 800 districts of India, there is a small Urdu-speaking minority at least.
In about the 1st century BCE or 1st century CE, an Indo-Scythian king named Azilises had three mints, one of which was at Taxila, and struck coins with obverse legends in Greek and Kharoṣṭhī.
In accordance with Indian customs, two of his relatives assumed responsibility for his upbringing until they were killed by rebellious nobles during a ritualistic ceremony along the Indus River.
In addition a large number of sealings have survived, of which only a few can be matched to the seals.
In addition to Pakistan home games and international matches, the Gaddafi Stadium has also hosted several matches of the Pakistan Super League, with the first one being the final of the 2017 edition.
In addition to Urdu, ghazals have been very popular in the Gujarati language.
In addition to domes and arches, the local tradition of trabeate construction also continued, especially in secular architecture, like palaces.
In addition to female students being deprived of opportunities, female teachers are also lacking adequate teaching spaces.
In addition to sites inscribed on the World Heritage List, member states can maintain a list of tentative sites that they may consider for nomination.
In addition to state-sponsored patriotic music, political parties in Pakistan have also harnessed the power of music to rally their supporters.
In addition to the ruins of ancient Taxila, relics of Mughal gardens and vestiges of historical Grand Trunk Road are also found in Taxila.
In addition to the traditional food, fast food is also very popular across the country.
In addition to the winding sheets, they wear long loose white boots of calico, fastened by a silken garter above the knees and turned back like a falling collar, in order to display the lining.
In addition, /f/ occurs in a few words in Southern Balochi.
In addition, Saraiki shows grammatical and phonological traits shared with Sindhi, reflecting historical and areal connections between the two languages.
In addition, a Hindu legend states that the Pakistani city of Lahore was first founded by Lava, while Kasur was founded by his twin Kusha, both of whom were the sons of Lord Rama of the Ramayana.
In addition, a hill range to south of the Taxila Valley is called Margala (lit.
In addition, media is also exposed to propaganda from state agencies, pressured by powerful political elements and non-state actors involved in the current conflict.
In addition, media is also threatened by non-state actors involved in the current conflict.
In addition, players who step out of the boundary are out.
In addition, some Kashmiris from Indian side of Jammu and Kashmir are known to observe the day, causing friction with Indian authorities.
In addition, the Pakistan Super League has seen games hosted in Pakistan.
In addition, the Persian and Greek influence led to the development of the Greco-Buddhist style, starting from the 1st century AD.
In addition, the system forced the music to be limited to a small subsection of the Indian community.
In addition, the variety of spices used is also different.
In an effort to stem the tide of street Islamisation, Bhutto had also called for it and banned the drinking and selling of wine by Muslims, nightclubs and horse racing.
In ancient times, Taxila was known as Takṣaśilā in Sanskrit (per IAST) and as Takkhasilā in Pali.
In and around Jammu, the special Hiran dance is performed.
In beach handball, Pakistan has won the Asian Championship in 2007 and Asian Beach Games in 2008.
In both cases the gender disparity is decreased but relatively more rapidly at middle level.
In both countries, Eid al-Fitr is referred as "Ramadan Bajram" and celebrated by these Muslims of both states.
In both these instances, the Pakistani military was left with no options to reciprocate because its electronic media were inferior to that of the Indian media.
In case of the Indus dolphin, the damming of the river has isolated the delta dolphin population from those dolphins upstream.
In cases of poor students being unable to afford even that, they could approach the king, who would then step in and provide something.
In central Punjab, Hindus are a small minority.
In cities like Vientiane and Savannakhet, Muslims gather for Eid prayers, followed by communal meals and Zakat al-Fitr.
In cities such as Delhi, the ancient language Old Hindi began to acquire many Persian loanwords and continued to be called "Hindi" and later, also "Hindustani".
In commemoration of their rejection of Iblis, stones are thrown during Hajj rites at symbolic pillars, symbolising the place at which Iblis tried to dissuade Abraham.
In comparison to these two countries, Pakistan also has more poverty and inequality.
In conclusion, gender disparity is in most aspects of life, going beyond binary genders.
In contrast only 67% in Jordan, 59% in Egypt, 51% in Turkey, 36% in Indonesia and 71% in Nigeria considered themselves as 'Muslim first' rather than a member of their own nationality.
In contrast to Persian poets, who had preferred the ghazal for poetic expression, Punjabi Sufi poets tended to compose in the Kafi.
In contrast to the Diwan-i-Aam, the Diwan-i-Khas served as a hall where the Emperor would attend to matters of the state, and where courtiers and state guests were received.
In contrast to the ailing Pakistani film industry, Urdu televised dramas and theatrical performances continue to be popular, as many entertainment media outlets air them regularly.
In contrast, departmental and armed forces teams remained active in the new league format.
In contrast, support for the death penalty for those who leave Islam was only 36% in fellow South Asian Muslim country Bangladesh (which shared heritage with Pakistan).
In contrast, the Barelvi movement, while representing a significant portion of Pakistan's Sunni population, has historically had less institutional influence.
In contrast, the Karachi Football League, despite being a regional competition, routinely attracted healthy audiences.
In contrast, the Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal employs a more aggressively theocratic nationalistic expression.
In countries with large Muslim populations, it is normally a public holiday with most schools and businesses closed for the day.
In dome construction, Persian-style squinches were used in some cases, but in other cases the domes were supported by flat beams over the corners of the chamber.
In earlier years, Pakistani films had been met with lukewarm reception and failed to perform well at box offices.
In early 2014, against Sri Lanka who toured UAE for 3 match series, Pakistan were down 1–0 after two match.
In eastern Indonesia, leaves from other Piper species are sometimes used in place of betel leaves.
In effect at eighteen km northwest of Las Bela at Gandakahar, near the ruins of an ancient town are the caves of Gondrani, and as their constructions show these caves were undoubtedly Buddhist.
In fact, according to the 2016 Global Gender Gap Report, Pakistan was ranked the second worst country in the world regarding gender inequality.
In fact, in a little under five years from the start of 1996, Pakistan failed to win on the ground.
In fact, in the 1990s, only 20% out of 50% enrollment were females who attended formal education.
In fact, it was a concept which evolved and emerged in course of time, as a result of the inevitable and unalterable forces of history... .
In fact, men have a literacy rate of around 67% versus women who have a literacy rate of 42%.
In fact, the delta is subjected to the highest wave action of any river delta in the world.
In fact, the language of Bollywood films tend to contain a large number of Persian and Arabic words and thus considered to be "Urdu" in a sense, especially in songs.
In fact, there is 1100 males to 1000 female ratio.
In fact, there is less money spend on them for health, education, and household expenditures.
In festivals and dinners, in pujas and punyas paan is an indispensable item.
In first Test, they were bowled out for 49, the worst in their history.
In general minarets were slow to be used in India, and are often detached from the main mosque where they exist.
In general, females face many other disparities, as well.
In general, most samosa varieties sold in the southern Sindh province and in the eastern Punjab, especially the city of Lahore, are spicier and mostly contain vegetable or potato-based fillings.
In general, specialisation in a subject took around eight years, though this could be lengthened or shortened in accordance with the intellectual abilities and dedication of the student in question.
In general, though, paan is an occasional delicacy thoroughly enjoyed by many, and almost exclusively bought from street vendors instead of any preparations at home.
In his 2019 study of Harappan and Indus copper industry, Brett Hoffman analyzed extensive copper/bronze assemblages from Harappa.
In his final Test series, Misbah made history by being the first Pakistani captain to win an away Test series against West Indies in West Indies.
In his first series against Sri Lanka, who toured UAE, Pakistan lost both Test matches.
In houses that have recently had a marriage or childbirth, Lohri celebrations will reach a higher pitch of excitement.
In its later stages, the Harappan civilization lost features such as writing and hydraulic engineering.
In its stop consonants, Saraiki has the typical for Indo-Aryan four-fold contrast between voiced and voiceless, and aspirated and unaspirated.
In larger villages, a single patti may have its own panchayat.
In late 18th century, it was known as Zaban-e-Urdu-e-Mualla زبانِ اُرْدُوئے مُعَلّٰی means language of the exalted camp.
In later Buddhist texts, the 4th - 3rd century BCE Jatakas, it is specified that Taxila was the city where Aruni and his son Shvetaketu each had received their education.
In later historical contexts, Greater Gandhara encompassed the territories of Jibin and Oddiyana which had splintered from Gandhara proper and also extended into parts of Bactria and the Tarim Basin.
In later works, Elfenbein, Iranshahr, and Bampur are also considered to be within the Saravani dialect area.
In light of the threats, Indus Delta was designated a Ramsar site on November 5, 2002.
In mainland China, out of 56 officially recognized ethnic groups, Eid al-Fitr is celebrated by at least 10 ethnic groups that are predominantly Muslim.
In many cases these channels were shifted to obscure numbers in channel line-up.
In many cases, the shishya had to spend most of his time, serving his guru with the hope that the guru might teach him a "cheez" (piece or nuance) or two.
In many countries, the start of any lunar Hijri month varies based on the observation of the new moon by local religious authorities, so the exact day of celebration varies by locality.
In many parts of Indonesia, the celebration of the Mawlid al-nabi "seems to surpass in importance, liveliness, and splendour" the two official Islamic holidays of Eid ul-Fitr and Eid al-Adha.
In many places in the country master classes are also hosted where families take part in activities such as embroidery and clay making.
In media reports, four million is the most commonly cited figure.
In medieval Spain, ghazals written in Hebrew as well as Arabic have been found as far back as the 11th century.
In mid-19th century British India, ancient Taxila's ruins were rediscovered by British archaeologist Alexander Cunningham and extensively excavated by Sir John Marshall.
In middle school, single-sex education is usually preferred by the Pakistani community, but co-education exists in cities.
In modern households, however, the use of dining tables has become increasingly common.
In modern times, betel nut chewing is popular nationwide.
In modern times, it has grown out of favor and has been replaced by cigarettes and chewing gum.
In modern times, the government-run All India Radio, Bangladesh Betar and Radio Pakistan helped bring the artists to public attention, countering the loss of the patronage system.
In more modern times, corporate support has also been forthcoming, as at the ITC Sangeet Research Academy.
In most cases they have a pierced boss at the back to accommodate a cord for handling or for use as personal adornment.
In most parts of the Indian subcontinent, there is a distinction made between chapati and other related flatbreads eaten in the region.
In nasi briyani and other variants made in Southeast Asian countries such as Malaysia, Singapore, and Indonesia, local spices and aromatics such as pandan leaf may be added.
In one case, a landlord abducted a Hindu daughter from a farm worker and falsely claimed the teen was compensation for a $1,000 debt that the family owed him.
In one of these bombardments, the fort's Diwan-e-Aam (Hall of Public Audience) was destroyed, but was subsequently rebuilt in the British era.
In order to make it a successful event, many security forces were deployed in and around the stadium to maintain the law and order situation, by their efforts the event was held successfully.
In other districts the population of Hindus is less than 1%.
In other parts, paanwalas are also known as panwaris or panwadis.
In particular, the musical form known as dhrupad saw considerable development in his court and remained a strong point of the Gwalior gharana for many centuries.
In particular, the musician Tansen introduced a number of innovations, including ragas and particular compositions.
In particular, the writings of Chinese monk Xuanzang from 630 CE explained that Mihirakula ordered the destruction of Buddhism and the expulsion of monks.
In partnerships, foreign involvement cannot exceed 25 percent.
In place of Arabic and Persian, the Western languages, history and philosophy were taught at state-funded schools and universities whilst religious education was barred.
In practice, these rules and regulations are not enforced.
In protest over its establishment, the professional journalists organisations refrained from nominating their four members to the council.
In rare cases, the /ɲ/ and /ŋ/ phonemes in Shahmukhi may be represented with letters from Sindhi.
In recent decades, however, Qawwali has increasingly incorporated secular themes into its repertoire.
In recent decades, the middle class has increased to around 35 million and the upper and upper-middle classes to around 17 million, and power is shifting from rural landowners to the urbanised elites.
In recent times, Arshad Nadeem is the reigning Olympic champion in Men's javelin throw with an Olympic record throw of 92.97 metres (305.0 ft) at the 2024 Summer Olympics.
In recent years, Pakistani dramas have increasingly begun to tackle social issues that are considered taboos.
In recent years, efforts have been made to preserve and promote Punjabi culture and heritage.
In recent years, it has begun flourishing again after years of decline, catering to audiences in Pakistan and expatriates abroad.
In recent years, rosh has taken traction with locals who enjoy the Balochi dish.
In recent years, their numbers have increased with many Sikhs migrating from neighboring Afghanistan who have joined their co-religionists in Pakistan.
In regard to education, there are large differences between male and females.
In regions of South Asia, desi in the context of food, implies "native" or "traditional".
In response to al-Fakihani's statement that "This, not withstanding the fact that the month in which he… is born namely Rabi'I, is exactly the same as the one in which he died.
In response to al-Fakihani, al-Suyuti said a few things.
In response to the alleged death threats by Taliban, numerous Sikh families have sought refuge in other nations deemed "safer" to secure their well-being.
In response, Pakistan lost 4 wickets for 1 run on the board, a first in an ODI match.
In return, Shah Jahan granted the Arain Mian family governance of the Shalimar Gardens, and the gardens remained under their custodianship for over 350 years.
In rural Bengal, folk sports competitions are organised on this occasion of Eid to create festive atmosphere.
In rural Bengal, unmarried Bengali girls would draw butterflies on the pithas, which has long been recognised by the Bengalis as a symbol of marriage.
In rural Punjab, the shalwar is still called the suthan, which is a different garment that was popular in previous centuries, alongside the churidar and kameez combination (which is still popular).
In rural areas only elite women wear burqas.
In several cases, Mughal emperors commissioned new imperial cities as their capitals, such as Fatehpur Sikri by Akbar and Shahjahanabad by Shah Jahan.
In sharp contrast to this civilisation's contemporaries, Mesopotamia and ancient Egypt, no large monumental structures were built.
In size they range from squares of side 2 to 4 cm (3⁄4 to 1+1⁄2 in).
In some areas of Pakistan they outnumber the public schools.
In some areas, it has borrowed words from regional languages, giving the language a peculiar regional flavor.
In some parts of Indian Punjab, there is a popular trick–or–treat activity which is engaged in by boys.
In some parts of Uzbekistan it is served with sugar.
In some parts of northern India and eastern Pakistan, this is called a phulka.
In some parts of the country, Muslim residences would open their homes with food specialities to visitors.
In some places such as Ibri, folklore songs and traditional dancing are often performed.
In some places, they also collect items such as grains and jaggery which are sold, and the sale proceeds are divided among the group.
In some places, this dish, more like a snack, is named tilcholi.
In some regions of Pakistan, Haleem is eaten with Naan or with any type of bread or rice.
In some regions of the Indian subcontinent, chapatis are only partially cooked on the skillet, and then cooked directly over a flame, which makes them puff up.
In some restaurants, a few kilograms from each day's leftover nihari is added to the next day's pot; this reused portion of the dish is known as taar and is believed to provide a unique flavour.
In some villages, the service-orientated castes have their own vehra, which may be known as Naeean da vehra (barber-caste yard) or Ghumaran da vehra (potter-caste yard).
In southern parts of India, it is called a pulka.
In spite of being in Punjab, the architecture of city of Multan is more influenced by the architecture of the neighbouring province of Sindh.
In spite of this displacement and other destruction caused in the rest of Pakistan, however, many people in the delta considered the floods as "good news".
In style and content, due to its highly allusive nature, ghazal has proved capable of an extraordinary variety of expression around its central themes of love and separation.
In subsequent series against South Africa in the UAE he led Pakistan in tests.
In subsequent years Pakistani strategists came to see Pakistan as a balance to both the Soviet Union from Central Asia and the pro-Soviet government of India.
In terms of matches, they played 74, winning 40, losing 21 and drawing 13.
In terms of matches, they played total of 72 matches, winning 20 and losing 12 with 40 draws.
In that match, it was another Mohammad performance.
In that year, the percentage of respondents nationwide reporting Saraiki as their native language was 9.83.
In the 'golden days' of Pakistani cinema, the film industry churned out more than 200 films annually, today it's one-fifth of what it used to be.
In the 13th century, Sharangadeva composed the Sangita Ratnakara, which has names such as the Turushka Todi ("Turkish Todi"), revealing an influx of ideas from Islamic culture.
In the 1430s, the fort was occupied by Shaikh Ali of Kabul.
In the 15th century, the Indo-Islamic style of Gujarat is especially notable for its inventive and elegant use of minarets.
In the 15th century, the Sikh faith was born in the Punjab region (of present day India and Pakistan) where Sikhism's founder Guru Nanak was born.
In the 16th century, Bayazid Pir Roshan introduced 13 new letters to the Pashto alphabet.
In the 1830s coins of the post-Ashoka period were discovered, and in the same period, Chinese travelogues were translated.
In the 1930s major excavations were conducted at the site under the leadership of Marshall, D. K. Dikshitar and Ernest Mackay.
In the 1951 census, West Pakistan (contemporary Pakistan) had 1.58% Hindu population, while East Pakistan (contemporary Bangladesh) had 22.03%.
In the 1960s and 1970s, calligraphic styles emerged in Pakistan, with notable artists being Iqbal Geoffrey and Sadequain.
In the 1960s–1970s, pop music and disco (1970s) dominated the country's music industry.
In the 1980s and 1990s, pop acts like Nazia and Zoheb Hassan, Vital Signs and Strings gained widespread popularity, defining a new era of Pakistani pop music.
In the 1980s, important archaeological discoveries were made at Ras al-Jinz (Oman), demonstrating maritime Indus Valley connections with the Arabian Peninsula.
In the 1980s–1990s, British influenced rock music appeared and jolted the country's entertainment industry.
In the 1990s, some Christians were arrested on charges of blasphemy, and for protesting that appeared to insult Islam.
In the 19th century ghazals gained popularity in Germany with Goethe's translations, as well as with Spanish ghazal writers such as Federico García Lorca.
In the 19th century, British soldiers and administrators started taking an interest in the ancient history of the Indian Subcontinent.
In the 2000s, heavy metal music gained popular and critical acclaim.
In the 2007 ICC World Twenty20, Pakistan exceeded expectations to reach the final but ended as runners-up, after losing the final to India in a nail-biting finish.
In the 2007–08 season, the league was expanded to 14 clubs.
In the 2011 census of India, 31.14 million reported their language as Punjabi.
In the 2016 edition, Pakistan unfortunately lost to the hosts India, score being 32–31.
In the 2021 World Weightlifting Championships in Tashkent, Talha Talib won the bronze medal in the 67 kg category by lifting 143 kg in the snatch event.
In the 21st century, South Korea is one of the fastest-rising nations in international kabaddi, having beaten India in the opening match of the 2016 Kabaddi World Cup.
In the 21st century, graffiti started becoming popular in Pakistan, with the emergence of artists such as Sanki King, and Asim Butt.
In the 21st-century, Lohri generally falls on 13 or 14 January.
In the 2nd century B.C., Demetrius I invaded the Indian Subcontinent, establishing the Indo-Greek kingdom.
In the 2nd century BCE, Taxila was annexed by the Indo-Greek kingdom of Bactria.
In the Akbar era, the word Rekhta was used to describe Urdu for the first time.
In the Arab states of the Persian Gulf countries, men would typically buy new Thobe (traditional white long robe) or dye their existing Thobes with walnut oil.
In the British colonial period, predominantly functional buildings of the Indo-European style developed from a mixture of European and Mughal architectural traditions.
In the Buddhist Jatakas, Taxila is described as the capital of the kingdom of Gandhara and a great centre of learning with world-famous teachers.
In the Chaand Raat children gather at the open field to see the Hilal (crescent moon) of the month of Shawwal.
In the Chāndogya Upaniṣad, Uddālaka Āruṇi himself favourably referred to Gāndhārī education to the Vaideha king Janaka.
In the Delhi region of India, the native language was Khariboli, whose earliest form is known as Old Hindi (or Hindavi).
In the Hanafi school of Sunni Islam, there are three Takbirs at the start of the first rakat and three just before rukūʿ in the second rakat.
In the Indian city of Mumbai, some drivers decorate their taxis in a truck art style.
In the Indian rebellion of 1857, both Hindu and Muslims fought the forces allied with the British Empire in different parts of British India.
In the Indian state of Maharashtra, the paan culture is widely criticised due to the cleanliness problems created by people who spit in public places.
In the Indian subcontinent, both haleem and khichra are made with similar ingredients.
In the Indian subcontinent, milk and cheese solids are prepared by heating milk over a low flame until the water content has evaporated and only the milk solids, known as khoya, remain.
In the Indian subcontinent, more monuments survive from the Mughal period than any other period.
In the Ivory Coast, Eid is a large feast among Muslims.
In the Madaklasht valley of Chitral, the Madaklashti dialect of Tajik Persian is spoken by the descendants of ironmongers from Badakhshan who settled there in the eighteenth century.
In the Malay Archipelago, the menginang or betel nut chewing has become a revered activity in local tradition; being a ceremoniously conducted gesture to honour guests.
In the Maldives, chapatis are traditionally eaten for breakfast along with a dish known as mas huni.
In the Middle East, traditional sweets are made.
In the Muslim world, the majority of Sunni Islamic scholars are in favor of the Mawlid.
In the North Caucasian republics, children popularly go past various houses with a bag to get it filled with candy, specially stored by locals for the celebration.
In the Punjab province, spice blends are characterized by their use of coriander powder.
In the Shin caste unmarried women are distinguished by a white cap, which is never worn by married Shin women.
In the Sindh province, the Sikh marriages are registered under the Sindh Hindu Marriage Act of 2016.
In the UK, the term 'desi' is commonly used to describe British [South] Asian forms of cultural production such as music, literature, and television programming.
In the United Kingdom, individuals take part in prayers and play games for Eid al-Fitr.
In the United Kingdom, the term Desi pub is used to describe a pub which is owned or managed by an Indian landlord, or which serves Punjabi food.
In the Urdu poetic tradition, most poets use a pen name called the Takhallus (تخلص).
In the Vishnudharmottara Purana, the Naga king Ashvatara asks to know the swaras from Saraswati.
In the aftermath of the Babri Masjid demolition, widespread violence erupted against Hindus.
In the aftermath of the Indus civilisation's localisation, regional cultures emerged, to varying degrees showing the influence of the Indus civilisation.
In the case of the "two most celebrated sculpted figures", Pakistan asked for and received the Priest-king, while India retained the much smaller Dancing Girl, and also the Pashupati seal.
In the case of the "two most celebrated sculpted figures", Pakistan asked for and received the so-called Priest-King figure, while India retained the much smaller Dancing Girl.
In the census of 1998, it was 10.53% out of a national population of 132 million, for a figure of 13.9 million Saraiki speakers resident in Pakistan.
In the context of South Asia, the choice between the appellations "language" and "dialect" is a difficult one, and any distinction made using these terms is obscured by their ambiguity.
In the cultural sphere, there are many books, plays, and songs being written or produced in the Punjabi-language in Pakistan.
In the decades following the Islamization regime, restrictions on music in Pakistan eased somewhat, and the rise of the internet opened new avenues for sharing and accessing music.
In the early 2000s, the script fell out of use.
In the early 2020s there were some 114 satellite TV channels in Pakistan, with most (42) concentrating on entertainment followed by news and current affairs (31).
In the early 21st century, as in the rest of the world, the number of print outlets in Pakistan declined precipitously, but total circulation numbers increased.
In the early decades, Pakistanis held many Asian records including the Asian 100 m and 200 m record held by Abdul Khaliq.
In the early half of the 19th century, during the Sikh rule in Punjab, Maharaja Ranjeet Singh used to lead a procession from the Lahore Fort to this festival site.
In the early times, before the Islamic conquest of Afghanistan, most of the modern-day Pashtun people followed to the Hindu Religion.
In the early years of Pakistan, the finance departments, bureaucracy, and other major institutions of the country were mostly managed by Urdu-speaking population of the country.
In the early years of the 21st century, a number of Pakistani novelists writing in English won or were shortlisted for international awards.
In the eighteenth century, the ghazal was used by poets writing in Urdu.
In the end they were bowled out by the Irish for 132 runs.
In the end, a large factor that played into if parents had their children attend these schools were based on their education level.
In the end, even with all of the Pakistani government's efforts regarding educational policies, they have tried in vain to adjust and fix the gender disparities that its country is facing.
In the end, the number came up to trillions.
In the era of Mughal Empire, the land of Pakistan became a Muslim-majority area.
In the event of a force majeure, the prayer may be delayed to the day after or the second day after Eid.
In the event, Pakistan was created on 14 August 1947 and Indian independence came a day later.
In the famous Anarkali Bazar in Lahore a street called paan gali is dedicated for paan and other Pakistani products.
In the fierce competitive environment that followed commercial interests became paramount and quality journalism gave way to sensationalism.
In the fifth meeting session held in Sydney in October 1981, the World Heritage Site committee added both the monuments to the list.
In the final at Lord's, the home of cricket in London, Sri Lanka won the toss and elected to bat.
In the final before a packed house at The Oval, India won the toss and elected to bowl first.
In the first innings of that match, they were bowled out for 173 and Pakistan scored 504 in reply.
In the following morning, Muslims go to their local mosque or Eidgah for Eid Namaz and give Eid zakat before returning home.
In the formerly great city of Harappa, burials have been found that correspond to a regional culture called the Cemetery H culture.
In the game, a raider enters the opposing half of the court to tag the defenders and attempt to return within 30 seconds without being tackled.
In the heart's veined temple, all statues have been smashed No priest in saffron's left to toll its knell tonight.
In the last decades of the late 20th century there has been a trend to "forbid or discredit" Mawlid because of the rise of Salafism.
In the late 1980s, morning transmissions commenced.
In the late 19th-century, Lohri used to fall on 11 January.
In the late 20th century pakol was introduced in the Kashmir Valley by seasonal migrants of ethnic Shins hailing from the Gurez and Tuleil areas in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district.
In the late 20th-century and beyond, globalization significantly influenced Pakistani music, with elements of Western popular music merging with local traditions to create contemporary genres.
In the mid 20th-century, the festival used to be celebrated on 12 January or 13 January.
In the mid-fourth century CE, the Gupta Empire occupied the territories in Eastern Gandhara, establishing a Kumaratya's post at Taxila.
In the middle of the night drummers circulate through towns and villages to wake sleepers so they can prepare Sahur, the big early-morning meal to be eaten before the fast begins again at sunrise.
In the modern times most of the Punjabi Hindus are settled in United States, Germany, England, Canada and Australia due to their mass migration (or diaspora).
In the next world championships, they also participated and were champions of their group after defeating France in extra time.
In the nominative singular, the demonstratives are marked for gender.
In the north, musicians play Andalusian music accompanied by fast clapping.
In the northeast corner of the Khilawat Khana stands the Lal Burj ("Red Pavilion").
In the northern regions of the country, mainly Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and Gilgit-Baltistan, the Pakol hat is commonly worn.
In the northwest corner of the Khilawat Khana stands the Kala Burj ("Black Pavilion").
In the occasion of Chand Raat, Bangladesh Television plays the popular Bengali Eid song, O Mon Romzaner Oi Rozar Sheshe.
In the past, the best quality of elegant camphor-scented betel leaf named Kafuri paan was produced in the Sonargaon area of Narayangonj district.
In the past, there had been around 40,000 teachers being trained in short-term programs per year.
In the percussion ensemble, the tabla and the pakhavaj are the most popular.
In the predominantly Sunni Muslim culture of Afghanistan, Eid al-Fitr holds significant importance and is celebrated widely for three days.
In the province of Punjab, Saraiki is written using the Arabic-derived Urdu alphabet with the addition of seven diacritically modified letters to represent the implosives and the extra nasals.
In the quarter-finals they played West Indies.
In the recent decades it has been adopted by several communities of Afghanistan such as Pashtuns, Tajiks and Nuristanis.
In the same event with his teammate Gulfam Joseph, she won bronze medal in mix team event.
In the same year, New Zealand toured Pakistan for their first series against them.
In the second Rakat, the same above steps (five Takbeers, Sūrat al-Fātiḥah and Surat Al-'A`lá, Ruku and Sujud) are repeated.
In the semi-finals on 30 March, Pakistan had a match with its fiercest rival, India.
In the southernmost provinces, wearing gold on Eid is a popular practice there along with neighbouring Myanmar.
In the wake of Zia-ul-Haq's sudden death and the return of democracy, the way was paved to abate the draconian media laws through a revision of media legislation called the Revised PPO (RPPO).
In the years following 1969, many authors, such as Umera Ahmad and Farhat Ishtiaq, became television writers.
In their Kafis, Shah Hussain (16th century) and Bulleh Shah (18th century) have adopted a strategy to communicate their thoughts, serving the humanity in a powerful and effective way.
In their report on archaeological excavations at Rojdi, Gregory Possehl and M.H.
In these the central arch is taller, in imitation of an iwan.
In this contact zone, Pashto language exists but in a subordinate and unofficial capacity".
In this context, the term can most plausibly be explained as originally having had the meaning "the language of the north", from the Sindhi word siro 'up-river, north'.
In this hall, there are pictures of musicians standing in performing postures singing poetry of sufi saints like Lal Shahbaz Qalandar, Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai and Sachal Sarmast.
In this match, final over of Australian innings was bowled by Mohammad Amir.
In this period, the lowest point of for Pakistan came in 1998 where they lost to Zimbabwe 1–0 in three match series.
In this project, the team held learning sessions across the country and conducted individual mentoring for journalists to produce stories that meet national and international standards.
In this the secondary school education is referred to as 'High School Education' instead.
In this way, Buddhism also spread through the silk route into Central Asia.
In this way, Zindagi came to its end on television.
In time, the nasīb began to be written as standalone, shorter poems, which became the ghazal.
In total of 41 Test matches, Pakistan won 6, lost 12 and drew 23.
In total, more than 1,000 settlements have been found, mainly in the general region of the Indus and Ghaggar-Hakra Rivers and their tributaries.
In tribal areas female literacy is 9.5%, while Azad Kashmir has a literacy rate of 91%.
In urban areas women typically wear the shalwar kameez.
In urban areas, chewing betel quid is generally considered a nuisance because some chewers spit the betel quid juice out in public areas – compare chewing gum ban in Singapore and smoking ban.
In various places of Punjab, India about 10 to 15 days before Lohri, groups of young and teenage boys and girls go around the neighbourhood collecting logs for the Lohri bonfire.
In very rare times and significance, foreign dignitaries have been invited to attend the military parade.
In western regions of Maharashtra, some oil is added inside the rolled-out dough and then put on the tava; this is distinct from paratha.
In winters, green tea such as kahwah may traditionally be served alongside it, while cold drinks are preferred in the summers.
InPage, a widely used desktop publishing tool for Urdu, has over 20,000 ligatures in its Nastaʿliq computer fonts.
Inayat Ullah won Pakistan's first individual medal at the Youth Olympic Games in 2018.
Increasing globalisation has resulted in Pakistan ranking 56th on the A.T. Kearney/FP Globalization Index.
Indeed, al-Suyuti said that the principles of the law say it is right to express happiness at Muhammad's birth.
Indeed, the Buddhist art of Gandhara, in particular Greco-Buddhist art, becomes essentially extinct around that period.
Independence Day (Urdu: ‍یومِ آزادی, romanized: Yaum-i Āzādī‍), observed annually on 14 August, is a national holiday in Pakistan.
Independence was marked with widespread celebration, but the atmosphere remained heated given the communal riots prevalent during independence in 1947.
Independent groups generally estimate the population to be somewhere between two and five million Ahmadi Muslims.
India assured Pakistan that it would consider a proposal by Pakistani foreign secretary Jalil Abbas Jilani to lift the ban.
India batted first and scored 300/7 with Virat Kohli scoring a century.
India batted first and set a target of 245 runs, leaving Pakistan with a required run rate of 4.92 runs per over.
India fell 16 runs short and the series was considered one of the best India-Pakistan series.
India has more than 3,000 Urdu publications, including 405 daily Urdu newspapers.
India lost their top order quickly with Mohammad Amir getting the key wickets of Rohit Sharma, Shikhar Dhawan and Virat Kohli.
India managed 260 after they batted first.
India scored 372 runs in their first innings and Pakistan managed 302 runs in combined both innings.
India were bowled out for 182, giving Pakistan a win by an innings and 43 runs.
India won the Third Test and the other two were drawn.The Qaid-i-Azam Trophy was launched in the 1953–54 season as Pakistan's national championship.
India won the next match by 10 wickets before the final two test were drawn, which resulted India winning series 2–1.
India won the tournament by defeating Iran in the final with a scoreline of 44–26, with the Indian Defense outperforming the Iran Defense.
Indian classical music has seven basic notes with five interspersed half-notes, resulting in a 12-note scale.
Indian craftsmen, possibly with experience in Mughal constructions, are also reported to have worked on the projects.
Indian epigraphist Iravatham Mahadevan postulated that the four signs were in the Indus script and called the find "the greatest archaeological discovery of a century in Tamil Nadu".
Indian fishermen crossing into Pakistan face a similar fate.
Individual households or groups of households obtained their water from smaller wells.
Indo-Greeks built a new capital, Sirkap, on the opposite bank of the river from Taxila.
Indo-Islamic architecture emerged during the medieval period, which combined Indian and Persianaite elements.
Indo-Islamic architecture has left a large impact on modern Indian, Pakistani and Bangladeshi architecture, as in the case of its influence on the Indo-Saracenic Revivalism of the late British Raj.
Indo-Islamic architecture is the architecture of the Indian subcontinent produced by and for Islamic patrons and purposes.
Indus Delta has 17 major creeks or estuaries and numerous minor creeks.
Indus bronze was alloyed with tin, arsenic and lead.
Indus delta has shrunk by 92% since 1833.
Influence of Hindu architecture is seen in the zoomorphic corbels.
Influenced by Iranian culinary traditions, Balochi cuisine is known for its aromatic character while being non-spicy.
Informal education has also increasingly become a field for not-for-profit organisations in the country.
Informal education is also important in Pakistan and regroups mostly school-leavers and low-skilled individuals, who are trained under the supervision of a senior craftsman.
Ingredients for biryani vary according to the region and the type of meat and vegetables used.
Inhabitants lived in windowless baked brick houses built around a central courtyard.
Initially a local product of only Nagar valley, now it is widely prepared in Hunza and other localitises on the Karakoram.
Initially demanding 50 million rupees as the jizya payment, the Taliban later settled for a 20 million rupee payment, which local Sikhs paid.
Initially expanding their businesses, the Chitrali pakol traders eventually came to dominate the Qissa Khwani Bazaar of Peshawar.
Initially it was called Republic Day but after Ayub Khan's takeover its name was changed to Pakistan Day due to the end of democracy in Pakistan.
Initially under Television Promoters Company (TPC) in 1966, it was upgraded to Pakistan Television Corp in 1967.
Inscriptions dating to 76 CE demonstrate that the city had come under Kushan rule by that time, after the city was captured from the Parthians by Kujula Kadphises, founder of the Kushan Empire.
Inside there is a quadrangle surrounded by rooms.
Inside, the classic Mughal palace was laid out with symmetrical gardens and various pavilions.
Instead of chuntey as popular in the neighbouring countries, samosa is often served and consumed with a chickpea or green pea curried soup.
Instead of rice, it may contain cracked wheat, vermicelli (sevai), sago or tapioca (sabudana).
Instead of using traditional domes, Vedat Dalokay designed an eight-sided main hall that looked like an Arab's Bedouin desert tent.
Instead, for the common benefit, Kakakhail asked Cobb to bring trout to stock the local streams.
Instead, it is going to be the one of political nature because it has to be "invented" by those who are at the helm of affairs.
Institutions in neighbouring states as well as in Lahore, Pakistan also advocate for the language.
Instruments such as the harmonium, tabla and dholak are now common in many Qawwali parties.
Integration and assimilation are important parts of Punjabi culture, since Punjabi identity is not based solely on tribal connections.
Intended as a way station for Mughal troops on the move, the Manzilgah included a small mosque which had been subsequently abandoned.
Interest payments for bank accounts were replaced by "profit and loss" payments.
Interest was to be eliminated "as soon as possible".
Interior walls are decorated with blue Persian tiles, in a style called kashi kari.
Intermarriages between the Hindus and Sikhs are very common there.
International Test and one-day matches are played between the Pakistan national cricket team and foreign opponents regularly.
International events such as the Lahore Marathon take place in the country.
Internet Protocol TV Service is provided by PTCL which is of high quality and is quite popular in the urban centres.
Investments must be made in updating building infrastructures, libraries, IT departments, and laboratories.
Iqbal Academy Pakistan is a statutory body of the Government of Pakistan, established and a centre of excellence for Iqbal Studies.
Iqbal was elected president of the Muslim League in 1930 at its session in Allahabad in the United Provinces, as well as for the session in Lahore in 1932.
Iran won the tournament by defeating Kenya in the final, 42–22.
Iranian Muslims take part in the Eid al-Fitr prayer and pay the Zakat al-Fitr.
Irreligion is present among a minority of mainly young people in Pakistan.
Irshad Ali with one silver and two bronzes in the Commonwealth Games is one of the most successful shooters at international level.
Iskcon has been conducting Rathayatras since 2015.
Islam had reached the Indian subcontinent during the lifetime of Muhammad.
Islam is the largest and the state religion of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Islam is the state religion of Pakistan, and about 96–98% of Pakistanis are Muslim.
Islam to some extent syncretized with pre-Islamic influences, resulting in a religion with some traditions distinct from those of the Arab world.
Islam was very strong in the provinces of Punjab, Balochistan and the North West Frontier Province, but small native communities of converts to Christianity were formed.
Islamic buildings initially adapted the skills of a workforce trained in earlier Indian traditions to their own designs.
Islamic clerics and some politicians have attempted to ban this participation because of the religious basis of the Punjabi festivals, and they being declared haram (forbidden in Islam).
Islamists such as the Taliban and looters destroyed much of Pakistan's Buddhist artifacts left over from the Buddhist Gandhara civilization, especially in Swat Valley.
Islamization policies during the 1980s imposed strict censorship on music and musical expression.
Ismat Beg is a Pakistani mathematician famous for his work in fixed point theory, and multicriteria decision making methods.
Issues such as illiteracy are linked to poverty and lack of fulfilment of basic needs.
Issues within the schools include defective teaching materials and curriculum, substandard and under qualified teachers, and overcrowded classrooms.
Jago teams usually do not use musical instruments apart from the occasional use of harmonica mouth organs.
Jahangir Khan is easily the greatest professional squash player of all time with an unofficial record of having 555-game winning streak.
Jahangir also added the Kala Burj pavilion, which features European-inspired angels on its vaulted ceiling.
Jahangir's Quadrangle occupies the northeastern corner of the fort.
Jalaibee (meaning twist) was a caper action thriller film directed and written by Yasir Jaswal, produced by Eman Syed.
Jalaibee was a joint production of ARY Films and Redrum Films in association with Sermad Films and Jaswal Films.
Jalaibee was the first Pakistani film to be shot with the Arri Alexa camera.
Jali, stone openwork screens, are introduced here; they already had been long used in temples.
Jamun is also defined as a fried delicacy in sugar syrup.
Jansher Khan won the World Open eight times and the British Open six times.
Jansher Khan won the World Open eight times, and the British Open six times.
Javed Jabbar's Beyond the Last Mountain, released on 2 December 1976, was Pakistan's first venture into English film-making.
Jayadeva's Gita Govinda from the 12th century was perhaps the earliest musical composition sung in the classical tradition called Ashtapadi music.
Jayapala then gained control and was brought into conflict with the newly formed Ghaznavid Empire, however, he was eventually defeated.
Jean-Francois Jarrige argues for an independent origin of Mehrgarh.
Jhalawani (southern, centered on Khuzdar) and Sarawani (northern, centered on Kalat) dialects are distinguished by the pronunciation of *h, which is retained only in the north (Elfenbein 1997).
Jhumar is performed at the wedding ceremonies usually.
Jhumar or Jhoomar (also called Ghumbar in Sandalbar area) is a traditional Saraiki and Baloch dance in Pakistan.
Jim Harrison created his own free-form Ghazal true to his poetic vision in Outlyer and Ghazals (1971).
Jinnah had repeatedly promised all citizens of Pakistan complete equality of citizenship, but this promise was not kept by his successors.
Jodha bai Palace is the largest palace in the Fatehpur Sikri seraglio, connected to the minor haramsara quarters.
John Biddulph in his Tribes of the Hindoo Koosh (1880), referred to the "rolled woollen cap" and ascribed it to the Shina people of Gilgit and Astore.
John Joseph, the Catholic Bishop of Faisalabad, committed suicide to protest the execution of a Christian man on blasphemy charges.
Jordanians also hang fanous or "Eid lanterns".
Journalists will study each other's cultures as they are immersed in newsrooms in each country.
Journalists, who encounter threats and attacks, are resorting to self-censorship more frequently to protect themselves.
Junior Rowers from Balochistan, such as Mehardil Khan Baabai and Mirwaise Khan Baabai won many medals.
Junoon became the first rock band to perform at the United Nations General Assembly Hall and only the second Pakistani act to perform at a Nobel Peace Prize Concert.
Jurists often conceptualized the observance of Muhammad's day of birth as a "form of reciprocation for God's bestowal of the Prophet Muhammad" as a way of justifying celebrations.
Kabaddi (/kəˈbædi/, /ˈkʌbədi/) is a contact team sport played between two teams of seven players.
Kabaddi is a popular sport in the Indian subcontinent.
Kabaddi is among the national sports of Nepal.
Kabaddi is played and taught in most primary schools beginning in about the third grade in most Nepali schools.
Kabaddi is the national sport of Bangladesh, given official status in 1972.
Kabaddi is the second-most popular sport in India, with the Pro Kabaddi League being watched by hundreds of millions of people each year.
Kabaddi was also played by the British Army for fun, to keep fit and as an enticement to recruit soldiers from the British Asian community.
Kabaddi was brought to the United Kingdom by its South Asian diaspora (Bangladeshi, Indian, Pakistani, Nepali and Sri Lankan immigrants).
Kabaddi was introduced at the South Asian Games during the 1985 Games.
Kabaddi was played as a demonstration event at the First Asian Games in 1951, and again in 1982, before becoming a medal event for the first time in 1990.
Kaithi's association with Urdu and Hindi was ultimately eliminated by the political contest between these languages and their scripts, in which the Persian script was definitively linked to Urdu.
Kala Burj was used as a summer pavilion.
Kalash people have a rich food culture that includes various types of breads and cheese.
Kanishka also built the 400-foot Kanishka stupa at Peshawar.
Karachi Fashion Week is a fashion week held in Karachi, Pakistan.
Karachi Golf Club is one of the oldest in the country and it is where the Pakistan Open takes place.
Karachi Supreme Court attorney Neel Keshav claimed that the Hindu population in Pakistan is likely to be much higher, as reported by Pakistan Today newspaper.
Karachi and Quetta are the major centers of rowing in Pakistan.
Karachi had the most prominent population of Parsis in Pakistan, though their population is declining.
Karachi was leading in publishing of popular pulp fiction.
Karachi, Pakistan's largest city, lies west of the delta on the coast of the Arabian Sea.
Karachi, Pakistan's largest city, releases sewage and discharge from industrial units into the Arabian sea, most of which is untreated.
Karachi’s food is known for its bold and spicy flavors.
Karate is the regular event of National Games, the federation also organizes the National karate championship.
Kardar then decided to focus on direction, not acting.
Kashmiri Bakarkhani has a special place in Kashmiri cuisine.
Kashmiri beverages include Noon Chai or Sheer Chai and Kahwah or Kehew.
Kashmiri culture is influenced by Hinduism, Buddhism and later by Islam.
Kashmiri has split ergativity and the unusual verb-second word order.
Kashmiri is recognised as a regional language in the state and is also among the 22 scheduled languages of India.
Kashmiri women held high status in society, as Bilhana records that Kashmiri women were fluent both in Sanskrit and Pali.
Katangi, a town near Jabalpur is famous for "Jhurre Ka Rasgulla", which has been made there for the past 100 years.
Kazi Nazrul Islam brought ghazals to the Bengali language, composing numerous poems which are still famous in both Bangladesh and India.
Kebabs are a staple item in Pakistani cuisine today, and one can find countless varieties all over the country.
Kechi Kich region in Balochistan, including Turbat.
Khaak aur Khoon (Dirt and Blood) by Naseem Hijazi describes the sacrifices of Muslims of South Asia during independence.
Kharak Singh Haveli was the haveli of Kharak Singh, the heir to Ranjit Singh.
Kharochan, until the 1970s was a bustling city in the delta.
Khawaja Nazimuddin, Pakistan's second Prime Minister, argued against equal rights for all citizens in an Islamic state.
Khawaja Saeed Hai was the first Pakistani to reach a Grand Slam tournament, playing at Wimbledon, the US Open, and the French Open where he made it to the third round.
Kheer is also the archaic name for sweet rice pudding.
Kheer made of roasted seviyaan (vermicelli) instead of rice is popular during Eid ul-Fitr.
Khilwat Khana was built by Shah Jahan in 1633 to the east of the Shah Burj Pavilion, and west of the Shah Jahan Quadrangle.
Khmais in their article "Teacher Education in Pakistan" provides the following information: There are many teacher training institutes throughout Pakistan.
Khojki was employed primarily to record Muslim Shia Ismaili religious literature, as well as literature for a few secret Shia Muslim sects.
Khyal contains a greater variety of embellishments and ornamentations compared to dhrupad.
Khyal is the modern Hindustani form of vocal music.
Khyal's features such as sargam and taan as well as movements to incorporate dhrupad-style alap have led to it becoming popular.
Khyal, literally meaning "thought" or "imagination" in Hindustani and derived from the Persian/Arabic term, is a two- to eight-line lyric set to a melody.
King Faisal bin Abdul Aziz was instrumental in the funding, and both the mosque and the road leading to it were named after him after his assassination in 1975.
King Faisal bin Abdulaziz's successor King Khalid laid the foundation stone for the mosque in October 1976 and signed the construction agreement in 1978.
King Pukkusāti governed the region either before or after its conquest in the late 6th century BCE by the Achaemenid Empire of Persia.
King Zahir Shah (reigning 1933–1973) thus followed suit after his father Nadir Khan had decreed in 1933 that officials were to study and utilize both Persian and Pashto.
Kiran Khan known as "Golden Girl" also came to attention when she won 7 gold medals, 3 silver medals, and 3 bronze medals at 28 National Games in 2001.
Kishmala Talat won Pakistan's first Asian Games medal in shooting at the 2022 Asian Games.
Knowledge of Hindustani classical music is taught through a network of classical music schools, called gharana.
Knowledge was considered too sacred to be bartered for money, and hence any stipulation that fees ought to be paid was vigorously condemned.
Known as Oraza Ait (Ораза айт) Kazakh Muslims tend to visit each other during the celebration and handing out fried doughnuts such as baursaki to others.
Known as the ’ICC Knockout’ in 1998 and 2000.
Korean Christian missionaries are also very active in Sindh, who have built schools from Badin to Tharparkar.
Korean Christian missionaries have converted more than 1,000 Hindu families in 2012 alone.
Korma is a classic dish of Mughlai origin made of either chicken or mutton, typically eaten with naan or other bread, and is very popular in Pakistan.
Koroshi distinguishes itself in grammar and lexicon among Balochi varieties.
Kosh Shastra, a work on the science of sex, second to the Kamasutra, was developed in Kashmir.
Kot Diji represents the phase leading up to Mature Harappan, with the citadel representing centralised authority and an increasingly urban quality of life.
Krishna is also commonly depicted alongside gopis in this sort of mural.
Krishna is sometimes shown playing his flute whilst the gopis perform the ras-lila around him or he is shown stealing clothes from the gopis, an episode known as chira-harana.
Krishna reveals himself and asks the king to provide kheer to every pilgrim who comes to what is now the Ambalapuzha Krishna Temple in the Alappuzha District, which still follows this command.
Krishna, as the sage, won the game and the king started placing the grains.
Kujula then invaded Parthia and annexed the upper reaches of the Kabul River before further conquering Jibin.
Kumbakonam is another city in Tamil Nadu reputed for its dry gulab jamuns.
Kun, hsay, lahpet (betel quid, tobacco and pickled tea) are deemed essential items to offer monks and elders particularly in the old days.
Kushan royal support and the opening of trade routes allowed Gandharan Buddhism to spread along the Silk Road to Central Asia, the Tarim Basin and thus to China.
Kushan-era Buddhist stupas and statues in Swat valley were demolished by the foreign-funded Taliban and after two attempts by them, the Jehanabad Buddha's face was destroyed by dynamite.
Kuñjakarṇa, mentioned in the Avadanakalpalata, is another king associated with the city.
LDS members are most prevalent in Islamabad, Lahore and Karachi.
Laacha is worn in Punjab, the lower part of which resembles the dhoti.
Labs are old, outdated, and poorly equipped, and curriculum is very outdated and does not have much relevance to today's world.
Lahaur Pākistān dā siāsī, kārobāri ate paṛā̀ī dā gáṛ ài te ise laī ínū̃ Pākistān dā dil vī kihā jāndā ài.
Lahaur Rāvī dariā de káṇḍè te vassdā ài.
Lahore has been the center of Pakistani cinema since independence in 1947.
Lahore is Pakistan's political, cultural, and educational hub, and so it is also said to be the heart of Pakistan.
Lahore is the capital city of Pakistani Punjab.
Lahore lies on the bank of the Ravi River.
Lahore's Shalimar Gardens were built by the Mughal royal family primarily as a venue for them to entertain guests, though a large portion was open to the general public.
Lahore, as the occasional residence of Mughal rulers and a once Mughal capital, contains many important buildings from the empire.
Lahori and Amritsari artists increasingly abandoned using the traditional Indic medium of gouache for watercolour techniques.
Lala Rajoo Raam is the representative of the Baori Buddhists community.
Lalliya replaced Samanta soon after and re-conquered Kabul whilst also subduing the region of Zabulistan.
Lamb is eaten more often in their cuisine than any other culture in the region.
Large fortified citadels or palace complexes, such as the Agra Fort and the Red Fort in Delhi, were enclosed in massive walls reinforced by semi-circular towers and entered via monumental gateways.
Large scale temples, such as those found in other ancient cities are missing.
Larger monuments dating from later periods included corridors and some designs inspired by cosmology.
Lashari centered on the village of Lashar, south of Iranshahr where Balochi close to Persian and Baskardi.
Lassi (pronounced [ləsːi]) is a yogurt–based beverage with a smoothie-like consistency.
Lassi is prepared by blending yogurt, water, and spices.
Lassi is traditionally served in a clay cup known as kulhar.
Lassi masalewal (spicy lassi) is made by adding ingredients such as almonds, ginger, green chilies, and pistachios to namkin lassi.
Lassi originated in the Punjab region of the Indian subcontinent.
Lastly, these trainers do not have any extra qualifications and are not highly qualified to begin with.
Lately, Aisam-ul-Haq created history in Pakistani tennis, as he reached the finals of 2010 US Open – Men's Doubles and 2010 US Open – Mixed Doubles.
Later Mughal architecture, built under Aurangzeb (ruled 1658–1707), include the Badshahi Mosque in Lahore and Bibi ka Maqbara in Aurangabad.
Later authors have noted their existence in Multani and have variously called them "recursives" or "injectives", while Grierson incorrectly treated them as "double consonants".
Later in 1896, George Scott Robertson described a "Chitrali Cap".
Later in 1923, Vats, also in correspondence with Marshall, noted the same more specifically about the seals and the script found at both sites.
Later in northern India Paishachi Prakrit gave rise to Paishachi Apabhraṃśa, a descendant of Prakrit.
Later on in 2023 an offline support was introduced by Google Translate.
Later on, Christianity was mainly brought by the British rulers of India in the later 18th and 19th century.
Later recalling the match, he stated that his main focus was to lose with dignity.
Later that season, on 6–8 February 1948, the Punjab Governor's XI v Punjab University match took place, also at Lahore.
Later the team toured New Zealand where they won two match Test series 1–0.
Later tombs at the site are sometimes made entirely of brick, with only a sandstone slab.
Later, Taxila was inhabited at Bhir Mound, dated to some time around the period 800-525 BCE with these early layers bearing grooved red burnished ware.
Later, cross-border agreements allowed for Indian Sikh yatri pilgrims to visit Pakistani gurdwaras during religious festivals.
Later, it is common for Muslims in Indonesia to visit the graves of relatives to ritually clean the grave.
Later, the letters ਜ਼ / ز, ਸ਼ / ش and ਫ਼ / ف began being used in English borrowings, with ਸ਼ / ش also used in Sanskrit borrowings.
Laṇḍā-based scripts, such as Gurmukhi, Khojki, and the Khudabadi script were used historically to write Sindhi.
Learning the common tropes is key to understanding the ghazal.
Lebaran continues with drumming and street parades.
Ledikeni, a variation of Pantua, is another variant of gulab jamun.
Legend has it that upon his rendition of a nighttime raga in the morning, the entire city fell under a hush and clouds gathered in the sky so that he could light fires by singing the raga "Deepak".
Legendary musician Umbayee composed ghazals in Malayalam and popularized this form of music across Kerala.
Lehengas are long skirts usually paired with a short blouse known as a choli, but can be paired with a long shalwar kameez.
Less than 6% of those in the age cohort 55–64 have a degree, compared to 8% in the 45–54 age cohort, 11% in the 35–44 age cohort and 16% in the age cohort 25–34.
Letters and digraphs shaded in green aren't usually considered as part of the base alphabet.
Letters shaded in yellow are solely used in writing of loanwords, and the phoneme they represent are also represented by other letters in the alphabet.
Level tone is found in about 75% of words and is described by some as absence of tone.
Liaqat Ali Khan opposed a 1937 proposal by Gandhi to deliver free education to children in their mother tongue.
Lichtenstein, the Mature Harappan civilisation was "a fusion of the Bagor, Hakra, and Kot Diji traditions or 'ethnic groups' in the Ghaggar-Hakra valley on the borders of India and Pakistan".
Life satisfaction is a characteristic linked to teacher workplace experiences.
Lighter meters were preferred, and themes shifted towards romance and eroticism.
Like Balochi cuisine, Pashtun cuisine is traditionally non-spicy.
Like Hindustani, the diphthongs /əɪ/ and /əʊ/ have mostly disappeared, but are still retained in some dialects.
Like Iqbal, Bengal was left out of the proposal made by Rehmat Ali.
Like Sindhi kafi, the mood and the theme of Punjabi Kafi may also be termed as secular and humanistic.
Like many other Indo-Iranian languages, Balochi also features split ergativity.
Like most Pakistani culinary traditions, it is predominantly meat-based, with chicken and mutton forming the cornerstone of most meals.
Like on Eid al-Fitr, the Eid prayer is performed on Eid al-Adha any time after sunrise and before the Zuhr prayer.
Like other Indo-Aryan languages, Sindhi has first and second-person personal pronouns as well as several types of third-person proximal and distal demonstratives.
Like other early Islamic buildings it re-used elements such as columns from destroyed Hindu and Jain temples, including one on the same site whose platform was reused.
Like other languages of the Indo-Aryan family, Sindhi is descended from Old Indo-Aryan (Sanskrit) via Middle Indo-Aryan (Pali, secondary Prakrits, and Apabhramsha).
Like other languages of this family, Sindhi has passed through Old Indo-Aryan (Sanskrit) and Middle Indo-Aryan (Pali, secondary Prakrits, and Apabhramsha) stages of growth.
Like other people around the world, Balochistan people are known for believing in supernatural powers such as the wind and sea.
Like the nearby Kala Burj, the Lal Burj was built during the reign of Jahangir, though finished during the reign of Shah Jahan.
Likewise, a script related to the Landa scripts family, known as Multani, was previously used to write Saraiki.
Likewise, it is the primary language of the Pashtun diaspora around the world.
Likewise, the Shafi'i Egyptian scholar Ibn Hajar al-Haytami (d. 974 A.H.) was an avid supporter of the Mawlid and wrote a text in praise of it.
Linguistic evidence links some groups of the Dardic languages with Gandhari.
Literacy for most Baloch-speakers is not in Balochi, but in Urdu in Pakistan and Persian in Afghanistan and Iran.
Literacy rates vary by gender and region.
Literary Pashto is the artificial variety of Pashto that is used at times as literary register of Pashto.
Literary Pashto's vocabulary, also derives from other dialects.
Literary attestation of early Sindhi is sparse.
Loba is a dramatic form of Pashto folk song, often a dialogue that tells romantic stories or allegorical tales.
Local Christians complained of inaction by security forces in Jaranwala, but eventually reinforcements were called in and around 100 Muslims were arrested for participating in the violence.
Local Muslim shopkeepers close their shops this day, while Muslim minority schools have a 5-day holiday for the feast.
Local variations such as Peshawari cuisine further showcase the diverse culinary practices of the region.
Locals began to decorate the trucks that arrived in colonial India using "kaleidoscopic age-old folk art" from the region.
Located at the foot of the Margalla Hills, the location plays a significant role for the mosque.
Located at the western end of the fort, the Alamgiri Gate is the entrance of the Lahore Fort.
Lofty palaces were built over time, along with lush gardens.
Lohri also marks the beginning of the harvest season and sunny days.
Lohri holds great importance for farmers.
Lohri in Jammu is special because of various additional traditions associated with it like Chajja-making and dancing, Hiran dance, and preparing Lohri garlands.
Lohri in the year 2024 will fall on 14 January as Maghi will be falling on 15 January.
Lohri is a midwinter folk and harvest festival that marks the passing of the winter solstice and the end of winter.
Lohri is a part of Indian harvest festivals which mark the winter solstice and are celebrated around Makar Sankranti.
Lohri is an ancient mid-winter festival originating in regions near the Himalayan mountains where winter is colder than the rest of the Indian subcontinent.
Lohri is celebrated by Hindus and Sikhs in India and is an official holiday in Punjab, India, Jammu and Himachal Pradesh.
Lohri is celebrated one day before Maghi (Makar Sankranti) and its date is determined as per Hindu solar calendar.
Lohri is celebrated to denote the last of the coldest days of winter.
Lohri is mentioned by European visitors to the Lahore Darbar of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, such as Wade who visited the Maharaja in 1832.
Lohri is the celebration of the arrival of longer days after the winter solstice.
Lohri is then distributed at night during the festival.
Lohri rituals are performed, with the accompaniment of special Lohri songs.
Lok Virsa Museum also has an auditorium for public events.
Lok Virsa has also published a series of books on sufi saints like Bulleh Shah, Sultan Bahu, Waris Shah, and Mian Muhammad Bakhsh.
Lok Virsa has edited, compiled and produced a set of 36 cultural documentaries and over 500 audio cassette labels of nation's cultural heritage.
Lok Virsa has the mandate to document traditional heritage at the regional, district and sub-district level.
Lok Virsa is commonly called the "Museum for the people of Pakistan", who the museum calls "the real bearers of our cultural traditions".
Lok Virsa is one of the largest publishers of the traditional music and culture.
Lok Virsa is the finest cultural museum in Pakistan.
Lok giṇtī de nāḷ Karācī tõ bāad Lahaur dūjā sáb tõ vaḍḍā šáir ài.
Lokaksema's translations continue to provide insight into the early period of Mahāyāna Buddhism.
Lokakṣema translated important Mahāyāna sūtras such as the Aṣṭasāhasrikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra, as well as rare, early Mahāyāna sūtras on topics such as samādhi, and meditation on the Buddha Akṣobhya.
Lokopakara (1025 CE) cookbook also mentions unique pakora recipe where gram flour is pressed into fish-shaped moulds and fried in mustard oil.
Lollywood films in Punjabi were most popular in the 1960s and are often referred to as the golden age of Pakistani Punjabi cinema.
Lollywood is Pakistan's film industry, which has served as the base for both Urdu- and Punjabi-language film production.
Lollywood is one of the biggest film industries in the country.
Lord, cried out the idols, Don't let us be broken Only we can convert the infidel tonight.
Lower education institutions such as primary schools suffer under such conditions as the lower income classes are unable to enjoy subsidies and quality education.
Lt.Col Abdul Jabbar Bhatti, Col Sher Khan, and Meherban Karim are Pakistan's most experienced mountaineers.
Lukacs and Hemphill suggest an initial local development of Mehrgarh, with a continuity in cultural development but a change in population.
MPhil and PhD education in Pakistan requires a minimum of two years of study.
Ma'amoul and Kahk are popular cookie treats baked and consumed during Eid in the region.
Maalik (Urdu مالک) is a 2016 Pakistani Political, thriller film made by Ashir Azeem.
Magiritsa (Greek Easter soup) and baklava are popularly consumed.
Maharaja Ranjeet Singh (13 Nov 1780 – 27 June 1839) had high respect for this 16th century sufi saint Shah Hussain.
Maharaja Ranjit Singh's elder son and successor, Kharak Singh was born in the fort to his wife, Maharani Datar Kaur.
Mahela Jayawardene followed after edging a shot into the hands of Misbah-ul-Haq, leaving Sri Lanka on 32/4.
Mahāyāna Pure Land sutras were brought from the Gandhāra region to China as early as 147 CE, when the Kushan monk Lokakṣema began translating some of the first Buddhist sutras into Chinese.
Mai Jindan Haveli is of unknown origins and believed to be a Mughal structure but attributed to the Mai Jindan, Chand Kaur because of the extensive additions by the Sikhs.
Main Hoon Shahid Afridi was an action-drama film directed by Syed Ali Raza Usama and produced by Humayun Saeed and Shahzad Nasib.
Major art galleries in Pakistan include the National Art Gallery in Islamabad.
Major copper and copper ore sources used by Indus Valley Civilisation included Rajasthan (Khetri mines) and as far as Oman, and Bahrain.
Major estuaries of the Indus are home to the Indian Ocean humpback dolphin.
Major hallmarks of cities and towns are decorated with Sindhi Ajrak to highlight the cultural values of Sindh.
Majority of media in Pakistan is privately owned.
Majority of the departmental clubs were also disbanded following the shutdown of departmental sports in Pakistan in September 2021.
Majority of the languages spoken in eastern regions of Pakistan belong to the Indo-Aryan group.
Majority of the languages spoken in western regions of Pakistan belong to the Iranic group.
Making an issue out of a non-issue, the Sind Muslim League in early June 1939 formally reclaimed the mosque.
Malakhiro is one of the famous local sports of Sindh.
Malaysian women's clothing is referred to as Baju Kurung and baju kebaya.
Male members of the community who linger and associate like a larger family commonly visit the hujra which serves as more than just a place to hold collective ceremonies.
Males usually wear kufi, Peshawari cap, turban, or Pakol as traditional headgear.
Malik Ata Muhammad Khan is one of the founders of International Tent Pegging Federation to address the Fédération Equestre Internationale (FEI), where he also served as Vice President.
Mango is a seasonal fruit of the region during summers.
Mangrove forests are one of the most abundant ecological communities of the delta, but they have declined over the years.
Mangrove forests of Indus delta now cover an area of around 600, 000 hectares.
Manrique distinguished biryani from pilau: "Among these dishes the principal and most substantial were the rich and aromatic Mogol Bringes [biryanis][a] and Persian pilaos of different hues".
Many Akbari structures were modified or replaced by subsequent rulers.
Many Buddhist empires and city states existed, notably in Gandhara but also elsewhere in Taxila, Punjab and Sindh.
Many Christians have served in the Pakistan Armed Forces, civilian services and other organizations.
Many Christians worked under Sikh landlords and when they departed the western parts of the Punjab region, the Government of Pakistan appropriated Sikh property to Muslims arriving from East Punjab.
Many Europeans were employed by the Lahore Durbar, such as the Frenchman Jean-François Allard, and were sponsors of the local arts.
Many Hindus are induced to convert to Islam for easily getting Watan Cards and National Identification Cards.
Many Indian artists who followed the Company school were hired to paint Punjabi subjects and settings.
Many Indus Valley seals and items in pottery and terracotta have been found, along with a very few stone sculptures and some gold jewellery and bronze vessels.
Many Indus Valley seals show animals, with some depicting them being carried in processions, while others show chimeric creations.
Many Muslims also take this opportunity to invite their friends, neighbours and colleagues to the festivities to better acquaint them about Islam and Muslim culture.
Many Muslims celebrate Eid al-Adha to commemorate both the devotion of Abraham and the survival of his son Ishmael.
Many Pakistani Sikhs have emigrated to countries like the United Kingdom (UK), Canada and Thailand.
Many Pakistani athletes have excelled in various events including the Olympic Games, the Asian Games, the World Athletics Championships and the Commonwealth Games among others.
Many Pakistani city names (such as Peshawar and Multan) have Sanskrit roots.
Many Pakistani dramas are based on Urdu novels.
Many Pakistani leaders and teachers hold conservative beliefs that education policies need to remain aligned with national Islamic ideology, which does not focus on human rights.
Many Palestinians go out to visit the families of Palestinian prisoners in Israel, visit the prisons themselves, and visit graves to lay wreaths on them.
Many Punjabi wall paintings depict women and girls in the process of a variety of actions, such as feeding parrots, peacocks, or bucks.
Many Sindhi women also wore churidar pajamo (Sohri Suthan).
Many Twelver Shia Muslims on the other hand assert that Muhammad was born on the 17th of Rabi' al-Awwal.
Many ancient Hindu temples are located throughout Pakistan.
Many argue that Amir Khusrau created the style in the late 14th-century.
Many artists use high-resolution digital graphics and vinyl stickers to replicate traditional designs.
Many atheists in Pakistan have been lynched and imprisoned over unsubstantiated allegations of blasphemy.
Many bear pictographic inscriptions generally thought to be a form of writing or script.
Many bilingual or multi-lingual Urdu speakers, being familiar with both Urdu and English, display code-switching (referred to as "Urdish") in certain localities and between certain social groups.
Many bronze and copper pieces, such as figurines and bowls, have been recovered from the site, showing that the inhabitants of Mohenjo-daro understood how to utilize the lost wax technique.
Many children live too far away from school to receive a formal education.
Many churches built during the colonial Indian period, prior to the partition, remain locked, with the Pakistani government refusing to hand them over to the Christian community.
Many families have a tradition of buying new clothes for their children during the holiday.
Many film makers, producers, directors shifted to Karachi to avail new opportunities.
Many former settlements have been abandoned as result of lack of water in the Indus and the encroaching Arabian Sea.
Many local celebrations take place in community centers and mosques.
Many media activists felt that the new regulations were opaque and had been subject to interpretation by the courts which would have provided media practitioners with clearer guidelines.
Many musical instruments are associated with Hindustani classical music.
Many musician families obtained large grants of land which made them self-sufficient, at least for a few generations (e.g.
Many national and international channels are available via Satellite.
Many newspapers are published in Urdu in Pakistan, including the Daily Jang, Nawa-i-Waqt, and Millat.
Many of the gurdwaras are located in Nankana Sahib.
Many of the major historical ghazal poets were either avowed Sufis themselves (like Rumi or Hafiz), or were sympathizers with Sufi ideas.
Many of the scenes displayed on this 'Picture Wall' illustrate the court life of the Mughal sovereigns, their sports and their pastimes.
Many of the words of Arabic origin have been adopted through Persian, and have different pronunciations and nuances of meaning and usage than they do in Arabic.
Many of these are national award-winning books and a number of these are prescribed at the postgraduate level.
Many of those innovations created what we now recognize as the archetypical ghazal form.
Many operators started satellite and/or cable TV outlets without any supervision by the authorities.
Many people meet their friends and relatives, dine over Pakistani food, and visit recreational spots to mark the holiday.
Many prominent Shia Muslim politicians were known to play a decisive role in the creation of Pakistan for decades during the Pakistan Movement.
Many rituals and ceremonies are celebrated according to Islamic calendar.
Many rural Pakistani Muslims associate with pirs and seek their intercession.
Many shows such as theatres would also occur.
Many sites continued to be occupied for some centuries, although their urban features declined and disappeared.
Many students from the School's early batches became respected musicians and teachers in North India.
Many terracotta tiles from Kaho-Jo-Daro and Buddha statues are exhibited in Chatrapati Shivaji Museum, Mumbai.
Many trucks and buses are highly customized and decorated by their owners.
Many upper-class women wear a two-piece burqa which is usually black in colour but sometimes navy blue or dark red.
Many walls have already collapsed, while others are crumbling from the ground up.
Many working people in Dhaka, goes back to their hometowns to celebrate.
Many writers of fiction borrow from English and vice versa.
Marble slabs for the baradari may have been plundered by the Sikhs from other monuments in Lahore.
Marketing research company Gallup Pakistan, estimated there were 86 million TV viewers in Pakistan in 2009.
Marriages and other major events are also significantly different among the different ethnic groups.
Marshall deputed a succession of ASI officers to survey the site.
Marshall hypothesised the existence of a cult of Mother Goddess worship based upon excavation of several female figurines and thought that this was a precursor of the Hindu sect of Shaktism.
Marshall's interpretations have been much debated, and sometimes disputed over the following decades.
Masson made copious notes and illustrations of Harappa's rich historical artifacts, many lying half-buried.
Masson was impressed by the site's extraordinary size and by several large mounds formed from long-existing erosion.
Masson's major archaeological discovery in the Punjab was Harappa, a metropolis of the Indus civilisation in the valley of Indus's tributary, the Ravi river.
Master of Philosophy (MPhil) is available in most of the subjects and can be undertaken after doing Masters.
Matches were rarely televised due to lack of quality cricket and lack of interest in departmental cricket.
Materials from distant regions were used in the cities for constructing seals, beads and other objects.
Matiullah Jan, a prominent journalist in Pakistan, who highlights the Pakistani Armies atrocities, was picked up from streets in Islamabad.
Mauryan control over the northwestern frontier is attested from the Rock Edicts left by Ashoka in Mansehra and Shahbaz Garhi.
Mavalvala is best known for her work on the detection of gravitational waves in the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) project.
Meanwhile, Eastern Films Magazine, a tabloid edited by Said Haroon, became a popular magazine for film-lovers in Pakistan.
Meanwhile, Hindustani classical music has become popular across the world through the influence of artists such as Ravi Shankar, Ali Akbar Khan and Vikash Maharaj.
Meanwhile, the Bhakti and Sufi traditions continued to develop and interact with the different gharanas and groups.
Meat and grilled meat have played an important role in Pakistan for centuries.
Meat dishes may also be cooked with pulses, legumes and rice.
Meat may be combined with lentils and pulses, whether in simple preparations or in elaborate dishes such as haleem.
Meat plays a much more dominant role in Pakistani food, compared to other South Asian cuisines.
Meat, along with rice, is the most popular food item in Kashmir.
Media coverage of abuses by both the Pakistan government security forces and militant groups is hindered by an ongoing climate of fear.
Medieval Sindhi literature is of a primarily religious genre, comprising a syncretic Sufi and Advaita Vedanta poetry, the latter in the devotional bhakti tradition.
Meethi (sweet) lassi is made by adding cardamom, rosewater, and saffron to the yogurt-water mixture.
Mehrgarh is a Neolithic (7000 BCE to c. 2500 BCE) mountain site in the Balochistan province of Pakistan, which gave new insights on the emergence of the Indus Valley Civilisation.
Meluḫḫa or Melukhkha (Sumerian: 𒈨𒈛𒄩𒆠 Me-luḫ-ḫaKI) is the Sumerian name of a prominent trading partner of Sumer during the Middle Bronze Age.
Members of the club show up to matches across the country and are known to provide raucous support.
Memon reports that the area of mangrove forests was 263,000 hectares in 1977 and 158,500 ha (392,000 acres) in 1990.
Men typically wear thawbs and women wear abayas, the latter also painting henna on their hands or feet.
Men, women and children dress in fine attire, while the preferred dress colour is white, symbolising the purity of the soul after a month of Ramadan.
Meo, also spelled Mayo or occasionally, Mewati, are a Muslim ethnic group originating from the Mewat region of north-western India.
Mian Muhammad Yusuf, then the head of the Arain Mian family, ceded the site of Ishaq Pura to the Emperor Shah Jahan in order for the gardens to be built.
Miandad came in to bat at number 3 and Pakistan lost wickets at regular intervals.
Miandad received a leg side full toss from Chetan Sharma, which he hit for six over the midwicket boundary.
Mihirakula in particular is remembered by Buddhist sources to have been a "terrible persecutor of the religion".
Mihirakula in particular is remembered by Buddhist sources to have been a "terrible persecutor of their religion" in Gandhara.
Mihirakula presided over some destruction of Buddhist sites, monasteries and Hindu temples across northwestern regions of the Indian subcontinent.
Mikhail Andronov hypothesised a derivation from Dravidian (lit.
Milk and water are also poured around the bonfire by Hindus to thank the Sun God and seek his continued protection.
Minced meat is used for kebabs, qeema, and other dishes.
Miniature painting depicting Hindu religious scenes and themes was popular in the Punjab Hills amongst the various Pahari Rajput states.
Minorities were legally only permitted to vote for designated minority candidates in general elections.
Mir Nawaz won silver and bronze medals at the 2011 South Asian Winter Games becoming Pakistan's first ever medalist at any South Asian Winter Games.
Mirza Kalich Beg has been termed the father of modern Sindhi prose.
Misbah was considering retirement after the Australia tour but stayed till West Indies tour, saying he had 'one last job to do'.
Misbah-ul-Haq and Younus Khan retired after, with the captaincy going to Sarfaraz Ahmed.
Missionaries accompanied colonizing forces from Portugal, France, and Great Britain.
Mitha patta is produced in places such as Midnapur and South 24 Parganas.
Modern Indo-Aryan languages descend from Old Indo-Aryan languages such as early Vedic Sanskrit, through Middle Indo-Aryan languages (or Prakrits).
Modern Punjabi emerged in the 19th century from the Medieval Punjabi stage.
Modern Punjabi has two main varieties, Western Punjabi and Eastern Punjabi, which have many dialects and forms, altogether spoken by over 150 million people.
Modern Sindhi developed and was officially standardised and promoted during the British colonial era, replacing Persian as the primary official language of Sindh in 1848.
Modern Standard Hindi did not emerge before the 20th century.
Modern Taxila is a mix of relatively wealthy urban, and poorer rural environs.
Modern archaeology confirms this description.
Modern kabaddi is a synthesis of the game played in various forms under different names in the Indian subcontinent.
Modern kameez styles are more likely to have European-inspired set-in sleeves.
Modern linguistic databases such as Ethnologue and Glottolog classify Saraiki as an independent Indo-Aryan language.
Modern recipes call for dried or powdered milk instead of khoya.
Modern speech borrows words from English, French, and German.
Modern versions of the kurta can be knee length.
Mohammad Omer Saleem, a graduate of LUMS, has become Pakistan’s first-ever horseback archer.
Mohammad Waliullah Khan in his 1962 book Sikh Shrines in West Pakistan recorded 130 historical shrines associated with Sikhism in West Pakistan, listing all of their names and location.
Mohenjo Daro, Harappa, and Kot Diji are among the pre-Islamic settlements that are now tourist attractions.
Mohenjo-daro (/moʊˌhɛndʒoʊ ˈdɑːroʊ/; Sindhi: موهن جو دڙو‎, lit.
Mohenjo-daro had no series of city walls, but was fortified with guard towers to the west of the main settlement, and defensive fortifications to the south.
Mohenjo-daro has a hot desert climate (Köppen climate classification BWh) with extremely hot summers and mild winters.
Mohenjo-daro has a planned layout with rectilinear buildings arranged on a grid plan.
Mohenjo-daro is located off the right (west) bank of the lower[a] Indus river in Larkana District, Sindh, Pakistan.
Mohenjo-daro may also have been a point of diffusion for the clade of the domesticated chicken found in Africa, Western Asia, Europe and the Americas.
Mohenjo-daro was built in the 26th century BCE.
Mohenjo-daro was the most advanced city of its time, with remarkably sophisticated civil engineering and urban planning.
Mohenjo-daro, the modern name for the site, has been interpreted as "Mound of the Dead" in Sindhi.
Mohiuddin Nawab ran a 33 year long Suspense Digest series called Devta until 2010.
Mohsin Khan, the Pakistan coach, compared his team's whitewash against England to the 1992 Cricket World Cup triumph.
More complex patterns and Arabic calligraphy with biographical information of the interred body then emerged.
More draconian additions were made to the PPO during the reign of General Zia-Ul-Haq in the 1980s.
More recently, from the 15th century onwards, Zorastrians came to settle the coast of Sindh and have established thriving communities and commercial enterprises.
Moreover, 13 districts have Youth Literacy rates (15–24) of 85% or above according to the 2023 Census.
Moreover, PEMRA regularly reviews and updates its policies to keep pace with technological advancements and changing societal norms.
Moreover, in government schools material is not provided for in the Pashto dialect of that locality, Pashto being a dialectically rich language.
Moreover, members of the tiny Parsi community have some representation in the Armed Forces.
Moreover, the universities are expensive, due to which the Pakistani students cannot afford higher education.
Moreover, women account for 51% of the overall unemployed population, highlighting a gender disparity in employment opportunities.
Mosques in North America offer Eid prayer.
Mosques were relatively more restrained in their decoration but were built on a grand scale.
Most North Indians usually have private Lohri celebrations, in their houses.
Most Pakistani Sunni Muslims belong to the Hanafi school of jurisprudence, which is represented by the Barelvi and Deobandi traditions.
Most Valmiki Hindus converted to either Christianity or Islam after the partition.
Most are settled in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa followed by Sindh and Punjab.
Most borrowed words in Urdu are nouns and adjectives.
Most city dwellers appear to have been traders or artisans, who lived with others pursuing the same occupation in well-defined neighbourhoods.
Most common alternative is the General Certificate of Education (or GCE), where SSC and HSSC are replaced by Ordinary Level (or O Level) and Advanced Level (or A Level) respectively.
Most festive dishes consist of mutton, but salads and various soups are also popular.
Most ghazal scholars today recognize that some ghazal couplets are exclusively about Divine Love (ishq-e-haqiqi).
Most ghazals have between seven and twelve bayts.
Most houses had inner courtyards, with doors that opened onto side-lanes.
Most languages of Pakistan are written in the Perso-Arabic script.
Most majlises would offer fruit, dates, tea or coffee to visitors.
Most of Master's degree programs require two years education.
Most of the Balmikis (or Valmikis) belonged to the Schedule Caste.
Most of the Sufis in Pakistan relate to the four main tariqa (silsila): Chishti, Naqshbandi, Qadiri-Razzaqi and Suhrawardi.
Most of the archaeological sites of Taxila are located around Taxila Museum.
Most of the ghazals are now sung in styles that are not limited to khayāl, thumri, rāga, tāla and other classical and light classical genres.
Most of the languages of Pakistan belong to the Indo-Iranian branch of the Indo-European language family.
Most of the madrasas in Pakistan are affiliated with the Barelvi and Deobandi movements that originated in British India.
Most of the new laws that were anti-democratic and were not intended to promote public activism but to increase his control of the public.
Most of the population depends on agriculture and fishing.
Most of the private media in Pakistan flourished under the Musharraf regime.
Most of these Bahá’ís have their roots in Iran.
Most of these boats were probably small, flat-bottomed craft, perhaps driven by sail, similar to those one can see on the Indus River today.
Most of this chemical run-off consists of agriculture pesticide and fertilizer.
Most often, either the beloved has not returned the poet's love or returns it without sincerity or else the societal circumstances do not allow it.
Most players of the Pakistani volleyball team hail from this region.
Most print media are privately owned, but the government controls the Associated Press of Pakistan, one of the major news agencies.
Most prominent are those relating to elephant fights, which were one of the favourite recreations of the Mughal court.
Most sports played in Pakistan originated and were substantially developed by athletes and sports fans from the United Kingdom who introduced them during the British Raj.
Most wear lehengas, popularly either with short lehenga cholis or a longer shalwar top.
Most were built of fired and mortared brick; some incorporated sun-dried mud-brick and wooden superstructures.
Most women who carry it nowadays wear it just as a decorative accessory; it's usually worn wrapped around the neck or hanging down the shoulder.
Mostly, on the father's than the mother's education level.
Mother: Because ...to thank ALLAH Almighty for His blessings.
Moti in Urdu language means pearl, which designates a perceived preciousness to the religious structure.
Motiram Bhatta was the pioneer & the one who introduced the ghazal in the world of Nepali literature due to which he is called Ghazal Samrat of Nepali Literature.
Mr. Syed Phool Badshah, also known as Phool ji, is a well-known truck artist who is best known for his unique style of doing Fine Arts with Truck art.
Mr. Yasin Joyia was the first General Manager of (NTM), Which was shut down very soon by PTV bureaucratic conspiracies.
Muccá insáńk ájo o izzat ná rid aŧ barebar vadí massuno.
Much like Arabian ghazals, early Persian ghazals typically employed more musical meters compared to other Persian poetry forms.
Much of the Balochi number system is identical to Persian.
Much of the Hindu epic, the Mahabharata, is a conversation between Vaishampayana (a pupil of the sage, Vyasa) and King Janamejaya.
Much of this work is in the form of ginans (a kind of devotional hymn).
Mughal Gardens were based upon Timurid gardens built in Central Asia and Iran between the 14th and 16th century.
Mughal architecture emerged in the medieval period during the reign of the Mughal Empire in the 15th to 17th centuries.
Mughal architecture has also influenced later Indian architectural styles, including the Indo-Saracenic style of the British Raj, the Rajput style and the Sikh style.
Mughal architecture is the style of architecture developed in the Mughal Empire in the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries throughout the ever-changing extent of their empire in the Indian subcontinent.
Mughal architecture reached its zenith in the 17th century during the reign of Shah Jahan.
Mughal architecture was derived from three main architectural traditions: local Indo-Islamic architecture, the architecture of Islamic Persia and Central Asia, and indigenous Hindu architecture.
Mughal ceilings, let your mirrored convexities multiply me at once under your spell tonight.
Mughal emperors and elites consciously used architecture as a way to publicly display their presence and power.
Mughal gardens are gardens built by the Mughals in the Islamic style.
Muhajirs since 1947 have historically formed the majority population in the city of Karachi, however.
Muhammad Abbas represented Pakistan at 2010 Winter Olympics while Muhammad Karim represented Pakistan at the 2014 Winter Olympics, 2018 Winter Olympics and 2022 Winter Olympics.
Muhammad Akram and Zahid Ali Pirzada, Hazrat Islam competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics in the single sculls and lightweight double sculls events, respectively.
Muhammad Ali Jinnah also claimed the Pakistani separatist movement to have started when the first Muslim put a foot in the Gateway of Islam, and that Bin Qasim is actually the founder of Pakistan.
Muhammad Ali Jinnah had developed a close association with the ulama.
Muhammad Ali Jinnah took the oath as the first Governor-General of the country on 14 August.
Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan, became the first Governor-General of Pakistan with Liaqat Ali Khan becoming the first Prime Minister of Pakistan.
Muhammad Asif is a three-time winner of the amateur IBSF World Snooker Championship.
Muhammad Irfan-Maqsood is a Pakistani researcher and entrepreneur He is known for his work in the field of Techno-entrepreneurship and Biotechnology.
Muhammad Ishtiaq Khan believes that 'Shalamar' is a corruption of 'Shalimar', and suggests its derivation from two Kashmiri words, 'shali' (lit.
Muhammad Yousuf has scored the most Test runs in a calendar year.
Muhammad Zakaullah is a keen yachtsman and has represented Pakistan at numerous international events.
Muhammad then remarked that God had fixed two mandatory days of festivity: Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha.
Multan was an important Hindu pilgrimage centre.
Multani Chaamp is a meat dish consisting of lamb chops prepared with various flavours and spices, placed on sewers and grilled over charcoal.
Mumtu (dumplings) is another popular dish, often served with yogurt and parsley and black pepper, vinegar, chili sauce.
Munir Sadiq sailed into the record books in 1998 Asian Games, as his silver medal in the open enterprise class made him the first sailor to win five medals in the Asian Games.
Murals (including frescoes) feature prominently in Punjab and showcase various themes.
Mushairas are today held in metropolitan areas worldwide because of the cultural influence of the South Asian diaspora.
Music also finds mention in Buddhist and Jain texts from the earliest periods of the common era.
Musical concerts and dance performances are arranged both inside and outside the country, featuring popular artists.
Musical instruments must not be present in the gathering.
Musical instruments such as the surnai, karnai, dhol and chang were introduced into Baltistan.
Musicians also perform on the Beirut waterfront.
Muslims also greet one another with "maaf zahir dan batin", which means "Forgive my physical and emotional (wrongdoings)".
Muslims also visit the living in a special ritual called Halal bihalal sometime during or several days after Idul Fitri.
Muslims are expected to dress in their finest clothing to perform Eid prayer in a large congregation in an open waqf ("stopping") field called Eidgah or mosque.
Muslims comprise a number of sects: the majority practice Sunni Islam (estimated at 85–90%), while a minority practice Shia Islam (estimated at 10–15%).
Muslims in Tanzania celebrate Eid al-Fitr, when they normally dress in fine clothes and decorate their homes with lights.
Muslims of Cambodia often open their homes to friends and neighbours to share food together.
Muslims typically decorate their homes, and are also encouraged to forgive each other and seek forgiveness.
Muslims, mostly Indonesian blue collar men and women, typically gather at Taipei Main Station to perform the prayer.
Mustard greens are cultivated mainly in the winter months because the crop is suitable to the agro-climatic conditions.
Mutual intelligibility decreases in literary and specialised contexts that rely on academic or technical vocabulary.
NGOs say that under Indian laws, fisherman can face, at most, three months in prison and a $12 fine.
NTM introduced innovative and refreshing programming to Pakistani viewers.
Nafees Ahmad Khan, a truck art artist in Indore, is well known throughout India and has been designing one truck every day for over thirty-two years.
Najam Sethi, chairman of the PCB, said that this fixture would be the start of international cricket returning to the country, with him expecting every country to play in Pakistan by the end of 2020.
Named after Sikhism, a religion native to Punjab, Sikh Architecture is heavily influenced by Mughal architecture and Islamic styles.
Named the Nigar Awards, the event has become Pakistan's most prominent awards event for filmmaking.
Namkin or namkeen (salty) lassi is made by adding salt, black pepper, cumin, and sugar to the yogurt-water mixture.
Nanakpanthi are Hindus who revere Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism along with Hindu gods.
Narada actually names and classifies the system in its earlier form before the Persian influences introduced changes in the system.
Narada's Sangita Makarandha treatise, from about 1100 CE, is the earliest text where rules similar to those of current Hindustani classical music can be found.
National Conservation Strategy of 1993 was a major landmark of start of conservation of natural resources and wildlife in Pakistan.
National Puppet Theatre was established in 1975.
National Stadium hosted the second test match, starting from 19 December.
National Stadium was established in April 1955.
National Stadium's dressing rooms, VIP boxes, and pitch, were renovated in 2017 as part of a Rs.
National flags are displayed on major roads and avenues such as Shahrah-e-Faisal, Shahara-e-Quaideen, and Mazar-e-Quaid Road, leading up to Jinnah's mausoleum in Karachi.
National songs, special documentaries about 6 September 1965, and the stories of the people killed that day are displayed on TV.
Nationalised in 1972, PTV's experimental color transmission started in 1976.
Nationalism in other parts of the Muslim world was based on ethnicity, language and culture.
Navratan biryani tends to use sweeter, richer ingredients such as cashews, sultanas (kishmish), and fruits such as apple and pineapple.
Nawabullah Yar Khan, another son of Hafiz Rahmat Khan, in 1808 wrote a book of Pashto words entitled ʿAjāyib al-Lughāt ("Wonders of Languages").
Nearby are former sites of Buddhist shelters.
Nearly 160 km (100 mi) of railway track between Multan and Lahore, laid in the mid-1850s, was supported by Harappan bricks.
Neel Keshav further claimed that the 1998 census data showed a Hindu population of nearly 2 million.
Neemkai is a type of folk song usually composed by Pashto women, expressing themes drawn from daily life and personal experiences.
Neighbours of a gwand are known as gwandies, and may belong to differing caste-backgrounds.
Nepal is not desi, Muluki Ain legal code in 1854 of Nepal under Jung Bahadur defines "desi" as people of Indian origin different from native Pahari people (Nepal).
Nepalese Muslims often consume the popular Nepalese dessert sewai (vermicelli pudding) to mark the occasion.
Nergis Mavalvala is a Pakistani-American astrophysicist known for her role in the first observation of gravitational waves.
Nevertheless, the chairman was appointed, offices now exist and general administration work continues.
Nevertheless, the profound Hindu influence continues to shape the landscape and identity of Sindh.
New liberal media laws broke the state's monopoly on the electronic media.
New patriotic songs are also released each year.
New tax rates were introduced, further decreasing cinema attendances.
Newspapers and magazines are published in 11 languages; most in Urdu and Sindhi, but English-language publications are numerous.
Newspapers were scrutinised; critical or undesired sections of an article censored.
Next, mahya illuminations represent gratitude towards God with lamps of olive oil, barb, and ropes which would form certain sentences or images as desired.
Nicholson's Obelisk, named in honor of Brigadier John Nicholson who died during the Sepoy Mutiny of 1857, is a monument from the British era that welcomes travelers arriving from Rawalpindi/Islamabad.
Nihari is a traditional dish among the Indian Muslim communities of Lucknow, Delhi, and Bhopal.
Nihari is also used as a home remedy for fever, rhinorrhea, and the common cold.
Nimatnama-i-Nasiruddin-Shahi, a medieval Indian cookbook started for Ghiyath Shah, the ruler of the Malwa Sultanate in central India, mentions the art of making samosa.
No Christians were killed in the riots, as most managed to flee due to warnings from Muslim neighbours.
No Pakistani since has reached the final of either the British or World Open.
No call to prayer is given for this Eid prayer, and it consists of only two rakaʿāt, with a variable amount of takbirs and other prayer elements depending on the branch of Islam observed.
No competitors were, however, invited from any foreign country.
No convocations were held upon completion, and no written "degrees" were awarded, since it was believed that knowledge was its own reward.
No external authorities like kings or local leaders subjected the scholastic activities at Taxila to their control.
No occurrence of this root with a meaning related to sacrifice occurs in the Qur'an but in the Hadith literature.
No parallels to these mass-produced inscriptions are known in any other early ancient civilisations.
Nominations for the World Heritage List are only accepted if the site was previously listed on the tentative list.
Non-Muslim Pakistanis, including Sikhs, continue to grapple with significant challenges of persecution and religious discrimination in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Non-vegetarian varieties of singaras are mutton singaras and fish singaras.
Nonetheless, in censuses asking for a clarification on which strand or rite of Muslim faith they most closely align, they usually answer "just a Muslim".
Nonetheless, others contend that the date of Muhammad's birth is unknown and is not definitively recorded in the Islamic traditions.
Nonetheless, the lack of box office returns of a Pakistani film has less to do with the film itself but more to do with the severely limited number of screens in Pakistan.
Nonetheless, the sport gained popularity in the 21st century.
Nonetheless, there are indications of complex decisions being taken and large-scale mobilisation of resources.
Noor Jehan's directorial debut Chanway was released on 29 April 1951, and was also commercially successful.
Normally, betel leaves are consumed with chun (quicklime), seed cinnamon, cardamoms and other flavored elements.
Not having a good batting line-up along with a slow start to the chase, Pakistan were 29 runs short as India reached the final (India went on to win the final, by defeating Sri Lanka).
Not only that but should enforced in the same way as cisgender individuals.
Not providing a poor student a means to supply his Guru's Dakshina was considered the greatest slur on a King's reputation.
Notable Akbar period structures included the Doulat Khana-e-Khas-o-Am, Jharoka-e-Darshan, and Akbari Gate.
Notable Muhajirs include Liaquat Ali Khan, Abdul Qadeer Khan, Pervez Musharraf, Hakeem Muhammad Saeed and Abdul Sattar Edhi.
Notable musical forms in Balochi culture include sepad, shabtagi, vazbad and zayirak, which are performed in various rituals.
Notable other Christians are Cecil Chaudhry, Peter O'Reilly and Mervyn L Middlecoat.
Notable players include World-Record holder Waseem Ahmad, Mohammed Saqlain, and Sohail Abbas.
Note Dard's use of the royal we in this couplet, a technique characteristic of formal Urdu poetry.
Note: In more formal contexts, hypercorrect Sanskritized versions of these words (ਪ੍ਰਧਾਨ pradhān for ਪਰਧਾਨ pardhān and ਪਰਿਵਾਰ parivār for ਪਰਵਾਰ parvār) may be used.
Note: for the tonal stops, refer to the next section about Tone.
Noteworthy for his diplomatic endeavours, Virasena's successor, Subhagasena, maintained relations with the Seleucid Greeks.
Now there have been facilities put in place so that the sport can be played, and the Ski Federation of Pakistan now sends out teams to international tournaments.
Now, it is demanded of us that we should speak the language of Balmeek.
Now, the mass of those fishes in Hundarap Lake reaches 24 kg and in Khukush Lake their mass reaches 40 kg.
Nowadays, Iranian Sambuseh is often made with a sausage and pizza cheese based filling; however, a vegetable-based variety also exists.
Nowadays, it must be entirely extinct and the region is now dominated by Iranian languages brought in by later immigrations, such as Pashto.
Nowadays, the Perso-Arabic script has come to be associated with Kashmiri Muslims, while the Devanagari script has come to be associated with the Kashmiri Hindu community.
Numerous manuscripts, original research reports, field surveys and monographs on Pakistani culture are accessible to the public.
Numerous regional languages are spoken as first languages by Pakistan's various ethnolinguistic groups.
Numerous small and large temples have been discovered along the main road of Sirkap.
Nur B. Ali was the first Pakistani Racing driver and Co-founded the MAP.
O-levels and A-levels are usually not taught within the same school.
Occasionally, people in Pakistan dine out at restaurants with foreign-influenced food, such as Western, Arab and Chinese dishes.
Octagonal in shape, the Lal Burj was used as a summer pavilion.
Oddiyana was a small region in present-day Swat District.
Oddiyana was situated in the vicinity of the Swat valley, while Jibin corresponded to the region of Kapisa, south of the Hindu Kush.
Of the nasals, only /n/ and /m/ are found at the start of a word, but in other phonetic environments there is a full set of contrasts in the place of articulation: /ŋ ɲ ɳ n m/.
Of the several dozen studios across the country, only 11 were operational producing around 100 films annually.
Of the substratum in Vedic Sanskrit, the bulk have no proven basis in any of the known families, suggesting a source in one or more lost languages.
Of the three, it was the most widespread: it spanned much of Pakistan; northwestern India; and northeast Afghanistan.
Of these oral carcinoma patients, 36% were regular betel quid chewers.
Of these, 68 are indigenous and 12 are non-indigenous.
Offices, schools, and factories were required to offer praying space.
Often described as a "jewel box", sometimes called the "Bachcha Taj", as the tomb of I'timād-ud-Daulah is often regarded as a draft of the Taj Mahal.
Often there will be two percussionists, in which case one might play the tabla and the other the dholak.
Old Dhakaites have a rich heritage of creating the best khili paan with many complexes, colourful, aromatic and flavorful ingredients.
Old Sindhi poetry impacts upon contemporary languages and also accepts the healthy influence of some languages like Hindi.
Old Urdu dictionaries also contain most of the Sanskrit words now present in Hindi.
Omanis would typically eat foods such as shuwa (slow-cooked lamb) with coffee (see Omani cuisine).
Omer Younas is currently racing in the Formula BMW Pacific and Adnan Sarwar races in Formula Rolon.
On 13 August 2010, the country witnessed floods causing deaths of 1,600 people and affecting 14 million lives.
On 14 August 1947, the new Dominion of Pakistan became independent and Muhammad Ali Jinnah was sworn in as its first governor general in Karachi.
On 14 August 2004, Pakistan displayed the largest flag of the time with the dimensions of 340 by 510 feet (100 m × 160 m).
On 14 August 2015, the Government of Pakistan launched the Ilm Pakistan movement, with a uniform curriculum in Urdish.
On 16 August 2023, rumours began to spread in the Punjabi city of Jaranwala, Faisalabad, that a Christian had desecrated pages of the Quran.
On 18 June 1988, the first prayer was held, although the mosque was completed in 1986.
On 19 March 1972, the stadium was renamed in honour of Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi by the then president of Pakistan, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto while addressing a public meeting in Lahore.
On 19 October 2017, Sri Lanka's chief selector, Graham Labrooy, said that players who do not travel to Lahore would be unlikely to be selected for the other two T20I fixtures.
On 2 March, Balochistan celebrates its culture day every year, where people from different villages gather together to organise various cultural programs.
On 20 April 2007, a PCB official announced that former Test cricketer Talat Ali would act as interim coach, in addition to his rôle as team manager, until a new coach had been appointed.
On 22 August 2019, Sri Lanka's Sports Minister confirmed their agreement to play a three-match ODI and T20I series in Pakistan in October, but ruled out playing any Test matches.
On 23 August, PCB announced dates for the ODI and T20I series.
On 23 October 2011, the Pakistan Cricket Board discussed renaming the stadium following the death of Gaddafi, to support the new government in Libya.
On 23 September, Pakistan accepted a UN-mandated ceasefire.
On 25 October 2008, Intikhab Alam was named as a national coach of the team by the PCB.
On 27 April 2016 Maalik became the first Pakistani film to be banned by the Federal Government after being cleared with Universal rating by all three Censor Boards and running in Cinemas for 18 days.
On 27 March 2016, over seventy people, mostly Muslims, were killed when a suicide bomber targeting Christians celebrating Easter attacked a playground in Lahore.
On 27 October 2024, The PCB published new central contracts for the Pakistan Cricket team.
On 27–29 December 1947, the Punjab v Sind match at Lahore marked the start of first-class cricket in Pakistan as an independent country.
On 3 June 1947, the British government announced that the principle of division of British India into two independent states was accepted.
On 3 March 2009, the scheduled third day of second Test of 2008–09 Sri Lanka tour of Pakistan, the Sri Lankan team's convoy was attacked by armed militants at Liberty Roundabout, near Gaddafi Stadium.
On 31 January 2014, a case was filed in the Sindh High Court to bar the Sindh government from continuing with the event.
On 5 July 1977, General Zia-ul-Haq led a coup d'état.
On 5 March 2017, the final of the 2017 Pakistan Super League was played in the stadium, the first time a PSL fixture was being played in Pakistan.
On 5 October 2023, Pakistan became the first national team to play 2 international matches on the same day; vs Afghanistan in the Asian Games and vs Netherlands in the World Cup.
On 6 September, according to its "pre-declared strategy" of riposte,[b] the Indian Army crossed the international border in Punjab, intending to cut off the Grand Trunk Road near Lahore.
On 7 July 1799, the Sikh army of Ranjit Singh took control of Lahore.
On Alexander's death, in 323 BCE, the province and much of the once Achaemenid territories would pass to his general Seleucus I Nicator and founder of the successor Seleucid Empire.
On Eid al-Fitr, however, some devotees may travel to Sayyid 'Ajjal's grave after their communal prayers.
On Friday, the museum closes for one hour between 1:00 pm to 2:00 pm.
On a provincial level, Pashto is the regional language of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and north Balochistan.
On a small island in the near distance was the temple of Saad Bela, sacred space for the large number of Hindus settled on the banks of the Indus at Sukkur.
On account of the calamity, the president made an announcement that there would not be any official celebration of the independence day that year.
On formal occasions offering paan symbolized the time for departure.
On special occasions such as Eid more heavily embroidered iterations of the shalwar kameez are worn by Pakistani women.
On such occasions, mostly it is wrapped around the waist, neck, or just draped on a shoulder.
On that evening, people head to markets to finish their shopping for Eid, for clothing and gifts, and begin preparing their food for the next day.
On that occasion, musical programmes and rallies are held in many cities to mark the day with zeal.
On the Persian Gulf, biryani (Persian: برياني) is usually saffron-based with chicken, while in Indonesia nasi kebuli is an spicy steamed rice dish cooked in goat meat broth, milk and ghee.
On the Sunday after the riots, Mass was celebrated in the street outside the burned-out St. Paul's Catholic Church.
On the contrary, Pakistan Forest Institute estimates it to be 5.1%.
On the contrary, only a handful of exotic trade tools and commodities have been found at sites in the Greater Indus Valley.
On the day itself, before Eid prayer in the morning, zakat alms for the poor are distributed in the mosques.
On the day of Eid, men and boys (and occasionally women and girls) will attend the Eid prayer.
On the day of Lal Loi children bring wood sticks from their grandparents and aunties and light a fire burning the sticks in the night with people dancing and playing around the fire.
On the front of the note a star burst is encircled by Fifty Years Anniversary of Freedom in Urdu and '1947–1997' in numerals.
On the international border, Pakistani paramilitary troops exchange sweets with their cross-border counterparts as a tradition.
On the other hand, Christianity in Pakistan, while increasing in raw numbers, has fallen significantly in percentage terms since the last census.
On the other hand, the same year Pew Research Center found out that 94% of Pakistanis considered themselves Muslim first, 3% Pakistani first and 3% voted for both.
On the other hand, waee is primarily instrumental and often involves the use of string instruments.
On the second day of Eid, the longest running magazine show Ityadi airs in Bangladesh Television.
On the way through the forest the five in succession succumbed to the charms of the ogresses, and were devoured.
On the weight of these opinions, Marshall ordered crucial data from the two sites to be brought to one location and invited Banerji and Sahni to a joint discussion.
On this day, a change of guard ceremony takes place at Mazar-e-Quaid, Karachi, where the Pakistan Air Force Academy cadets present the Guard of Honour and take charge.
Once Inzamam got out, Pakistan required 36 runs from 30 balls, which wicket-keeper Moin Khan ended with a towering six over long off, followed by the winning boundary to midwicket.
Once again, the more "feminine" gender is targeted and have less access to opportunities than their male counterparts.
Once cooked, chapatis are often topped with butter or ghee.
Once its deadline of 1 October 1939 for the restoration of the mosque to Muslims had passed, the League started an agitation.
Once the moon is sighted, people wish each other Eid Mubarak ("Blessings of the Eid day").
Once the new moon is sighted, announcements are made from mosques, as well as through television and radio broadcasts.
One Indus Valley seal shows a seated figure with a horned headdress, possibly tricephalic and possibly ithyphallic, surrounded by animals.
One common Bangladeshi version of Halim is called "Shahi Halim"; it is mostly popular in the central part of the country.
One contributing factor to the overall decline of magazines is their relatively higher production cost, as they often require more specialized writers and higher-quality advertising.
One difference is that grammatical terminations in the northern dialect are less distinct compared with those in the southern tribes.
One example is the use of अ (Devanagari a) with vowel signs to mimic contexts of ع (‘ain), in violation of Hindi orthographic rules.
One example of this progress recently made in 2010 was that primary education is a legal right for children ranging from five to sixteen years old.
One handwritten Urdu newspaper, The Musalman, is still published daily in Chennai.
One historical name for Saraiki, Jaṭki, means "of the Jaṭṭs", a northern South Asian ethnic group.
One issue is the lack of physical infrastructure that is a particular barrier for girls being able to access education.
One method is to divide them into pattis, which are further divided into thulas or als.
One more PhD thesis says that "It is an assumption that the Bahá’ís do not want to declare their exact population, which is supposed to be more or less 3,000 in total".
One notable example is the Panjab Digital Library (PDL), founded by Davinder Pal Singh.
One notable example is the teaching of Punjabi language and literature by the University of the Punjab in Lahore which began in 1970 with the establishment of its Punjabi Department.
One of Pakistan's oldest television dramas is the Urdu serial Khuda Ki Basti, which aired in 1969.
One of Pakistan's well-known cricketers, Yousuf Youhana, was born Christian but later converted to Islam, taking the Islamic name Mohammad Yousuf.
One of said figures is 18.7 cm tall and is currently on display at the National Museum of Pakistan, in Karachi.
One of the earliest firsthand accounts of betel nut chewing by western authors was from Ibn Battuta.
One of the earliest mentions of Taxila is in Pāṇini's Aṣṭādhyāyī, a Sanskrit grammar treatise dated to the 4th century BCE.
One of the earliest modern music festivals focusing on Hindustani classical music was the Harballabh Sangeet Sammelan, founded in 1875 in Jallandhar.
One of the earliest modern tournaments of the sport, the All India Kabaddi Tournament in 1923, was played according to these amended rules.
One of the first victims of this sociopolitical change was Pakistani cinema.
One of the five, the Beas River, is a tributary of another, the Sutlej.
One of the highlights of the tournament for Pakistan was when they beat Australia, who were led by 3 brilliant pace bowlers, Brett Lee, Shaun Tait and Mitchell Johnson.
One of the key phases in this transmission was during the Delhi Sultanate period (1206–1526), when Muslim rule was established across large parts of northern India.
One of the main highways of Islamabad, Faisal Avenue leads straight to the mosque showing the importance of the landmark.
One of the most biggest moment for Pakistan under Misbah's captaincy was when they whitewashed England, the then no.1 side, who toured UAE in early 2012.
One of the most famous Indo-Greek kings Menander, converted to Buddhism following a dialogue with the monk Nāgasena in Sagala, present-day Sialkot.
One of the most famous people wearing the pakol was the military leader of the Panjshir Valley, Ahmad Shah Massoud.
One of the most important parts of the cultural identity of the Baloch people is the Pashtu and brahui and balochi languages, the "99th most spoken language in the world".
One of the most important places of worship for Hindus in Pakistan is the shrine of Shri Hinglaj Mata temple in Balochistan.
One of the most notable genres of traditional Pakistani music is qawwali, a devotional musical form.
One of the most well known examples of Sikh architecture is the Samadhi of Ranjit Singh, built in 1839.
One of the movie's songs is directed by Haissam Hussain.
One of the panels shows four horsemen playing the noble game of Vaughan, nowadays known as polo.
One of the trademark and historical headwear of Pashtun men is an adorned turban wrapped tightly around a hat with one of its ends loose over the shoulders, a sure sign and recognition of a Pashtun.
One of these lost languages could have been the Harappan language, which Witzel labelled as the Kubhā-Vipāś substrate.
One ogress followed the Bodhisatta right up to the gates of Takkasilā, where the king took her into the palace, paying no heed to the Bodhisatta's warning.
One possible classification of ragas is into "melodic modes" or "parent scales," known as thaats, under which most ragas can be classified based on the notes they use.
One reason give is the shortage of local bushes and plants that are used for preparing various materials (especially by the Jat villagers).
One recurring critique revolves around the perceived susceptibility of PEMRA to political influence, raising concerns about its impartiality.
One scholar places the migration as late as the 13th or 14th century.
One seal from Mohenjo-daro shows a half-human, a half-buffalo monster attacking a tiger, which may be a reference to the Sumerian myth of such a monster created by goddess Aruru to fight Gilgamesh.
One state of the region named Jìbīn (罽賓; 罽宾, also romanised as Kipin) is recorded in the Book of Han.
One team could be forced to play three games in five days due to the congested fixture list.
One tool widely used by the government is to cut off 'unfriendly' media from governmental advertising.
One was the Kargil War and the other was the hijacking of the India Airliner by militants.
Online platforms and social media have helped globalize the art form, allowing artists to reach wider audiences and collaborate with brands.
Only 18% of Pakistani women have received 10 years or more of schooling.
Only Muslims are allowed to become the President or the Prime Minister.
Only a small minority of Saraiki speakers are Jaṭṭs, and not all Saraiki speaking Jaṭṭs necessarily speak the same dialect of Saraiki.
Only about 67.5% of Pakistani children finish primary school education.
Only about a third of the population has access to clean drinking water.
Only in the tribal areas along the Afghan border the traditional Pashtun turban remained popular.
Only the Bamiyan Buddhas were larger than the carved giant Buddha statue in Swat near Mangalore.
Open pavilions with rows of cusped arches were a recurring feature.
Opinions differ on the differences between the dishes, if any.
Or the word يګانګي yagānagí meaning 'uniqueness' used by Pir Roshan Bayazid.
Ordu means army in the Turkic languages.
Originally a private project led by Syed Wajjid Ali in 1961, a joint venture agreement with Nippon Electric Company (NEC) was signed.
Originally, musical instrument use in Qawwali was prohibited.
Originated in South Asia, the beginning of an Islamic month depends on the first sighting of the lunar crescent and thus the month of Ramadan can be of either 29 or 30 days.
Originating from Karachi, the largest city in Pakistan and the capital of Sindh province, this version is known for its smooth consistency and balanced use of spices.
Originating from an Arabic dish called harees, Haleem was introduced to the region during the Mughal period by foreign migrants.
Originating in South Africa, farmaas puri spread to Gujarati communities in India and Pakistan, where it is popular during Ramadan.
Other Dravidian languages have also been historically written in the Arabic script by the Muslim minority speakers of each respective language, namely Arabi-Tamil and Arabi-Malayalam.
Other Muslims might have been expected to be sympathetic, even enthusiastic.
Other Punjabi shalwar styles include the Pothohari shalwar, Multani shalwar, Dhoti shalwar, and the Bahawalpuri shalwar which is very wide and baggy with many folds.
Other Sunni schools usually have 12 Takbirs, similarly split in groups of seven and five.
Other activities include art exhibitions.
Other communities of Pashto speakers are found in India, Tajikistan, and northeastern Iran (primarily in South Khorasan Province to the east of Qaen, near the Afghan border).
Other communities worship manifold "Mother Goddesses" as their clan or family patrons.
Other communities, most notably the Punjabi elite of Pakistan, have adopted Urdu as a mother tongue and identify with both an Urdu speaker as well as Punjabi identity.
Other customs affiliated with Mawlid are supererogatory fasting, Music and dhikr.
Other early poets were Shah Inat Rizvi (c. 1613–1701) and Shah Abdul Karim Bulri (1538–1623).
Other elements were added to the complex over the next two centuries.
Other events are the Tour of Islamabad and the MTB Tour of the Himalayas.
Other examples include the Rohtas Fort built by Sher Shah Suri in the 16th century, and the Tombs of the Talpur Mirs.
Other factors such as VCRs and film piracy had a negative effect on the growth of the industry.
Other films released in 2014 included Tamanna directed by Steven Moore, Sultanat directed by Syed Faisal Bukhari, Dukhtar directed by Afia Nathaniel, and O21 directed by Jami.
Other hits were Syed Noor's 1995 film Jeeva, Saeed Rizvi's Sarkata Insaan and his 1997 film Tilismih Jazira.
Other items of clothing include the jama and the angarkha.
Other languages spoken by linguistic minorities include the languages listed below, with speakers ranging from a few dozen to tens of thousands.
Other leading exponents include the Gundecha Brothers and Uday Bhawalkar, who have received training from some of the Dagars.
Other masterpieces of this time include the Wazir Khan Mosque, Dai Anga Mosque, Tomb of Dai Anga, Shalimar Gardens and Shahi Hammam in Lahore.
Other minor products include resin (a fluid in tissue of Chir pine plant that becomes solid on exposure to the air) and 'mazri' (used for making baskets).
Other mosques gathered at public parks to celebrate.
Other notable Pakistani performers included Abdul Jabbar and Tayyab Iftikhar, who contributed to the country’s medal tally.
Other objects come from excavated sites elsewhere in Gandhara, from donations such as the Ram Das Collection, or from material confiscated by law enforcement and customs authorities.
Other parties have arisen, such as Pakistan Peoples Party, once advocating a leftist program and now more centrist.
Other politicians that held prominent roles in the initial decades of the Muslim League include Raja Sahib, Syed Ameer Ali and Syed Wazir Hasan, among others.
Other popular stories include Sohni Mahiwal by Fazal Shah, Mirza Sahiba by Hafiz Barkhudar (1658–1707), Sassi Punnun by Hashim Shah (1735–1843), and Qissa Puran Bhagat by Qadaryar (1802–1892).
Other pre-Mughal objects unearthed in the excavation included terracotta depicting mother goddess, horses, bulls and other figures of Hindu origin.
Other productions would be independent of any studio usually financed by the filmmakers themselves.
Other prominent Sikhs are Inspector Amarjeet Singh of Pakistan Rangers and Lance-naik Behram Singh of Pakistan Coast Guard.
Other public buildings and infrastructure works included roads, milestones (known as kos minar), caravanserais (inns for merchants and travelers), and bridges.
Other public works by high ranking nobles of Shah Jahan include those of Ali Mardan Khan, Wazir Khan, Nasiri Khan, and Kartalab Khan Deccani.
Other qualifications include IGCSE which replaces SSC.
Other regular Hanafi schools include the Jamaat-e-Islami's madrasas, Minhaj-ul-Quran madrasas and others which are neither Barelvi nor Deobandi.
Other scenes found in Punjabi wall paintings seem to stem from the stories of the Bhagavata Purana.
Other school districts close on Eid, including Irvington New Jersey's school district and Vermont's Burlington School District.
Other sites associated with the Late phase of the Harappan culture are Pirak in Balochistan, Pakistan, and Daimabad in Maharashtra, India.
Other sources, including the US Department of State, claim the Sikh population in Pakistan to be as high as 20,000.
Other sources, including the US Department of State, claim the Sikh population in Pakistan to be at 20,000.
Others are about earthly love (ishq-e-majazi), but many can be interpreted in either context.
Others have been victims of church arsons or demolitions.
Others have migrated due to lack of potable drinking water.
Out of 21 Test series they have played from that period, they won 9, lost 5 and drew 7.
Out of the formal system, the public sectors runs numerous schools and training centres, most being vocational-oriented.
Outfitting is often completed at a coach workshop.
Outside Pakistan, Pakistani cuisine is prevalent in countries where there are large Pakistani communities present.
Outside South Asia, it is spoken by large numbers of migrant South Asian workers in the major urban centres of the Persian Gulf countries.
Outside the Muslim-majority regions, only Muslims are entitled to a one-day holiday.
Outside the city the Ashtur tombs are a group of eight large domed royal tombs.
Ovais was also responsible for putting together the Pakistan National Karting Championship.
Over 150 research papers have been attributed to him.
Over a career spanning nearly five decades, she educated and mentored thousands of students and emerging artists across the country.
Over centuries, the region has developed a distinct cultural identity, shaped by a fusion of Middle Eastern, Central Asian and North Indian influences.
Over the years, PEMRA has been actively involved in shaping and refining policies to address the evolving challenges and dynamics of the media landscape.
Over time, the dish became biryani due to different methods of cooking.
Overall, anthropologist Gregory Possehl tends to consider that these statuettes probably form the pinnacle of Indus art during the Mature Harappan period.
Overseas dignitaries are invited as chief guests in ceremonies, while their military contingents often participate in parades.
Owing to interaction with other languages, Urdu has become localised wherever it is spoken, including in Pakistan.
Owing to its strategic location, Taxila has changed hands many times over the centuries, with many polities vying for its control.
Ownership of publications (mainly newspapers and news agencies) is restricted to Pakistani nationals if special government permission is not given.
PCB Chairman Najam Sethi announced in 2017 that Karachi's National Stadium will host the final match of 2018 Pakistan Super League on 25 March 2018.
PEMRA doesn't allow broadcasting rights for religious content, allowing airing of Christian messages only on Easter and Christmas.
PEMRA is also involved in media censorship and occasionally halts broadcasts and closes media outlets.
PEMRA's mandate encompasses television, radio, and other electronic media platforms.
PHF secretary lamented over lack of funding could even ban Pakistan hockey team.
PNCA is an autonomous body in the orbit of the Ministry.
PNCA is the Apex Cultural body functioning on a national level.
PNCA policies are framed by its Board of Governors which reports to the Federal Minister for National Heritage and Culture Division.
PTN merged with Shalimar Recording Company in 1991, renaming the TV channel as Shalimar Television Network (STN).
PTV Home, PTV News (both state-owned), and ATV (semi-private) are broadcast on terrestrial and satellite beams.
PTV Network took over STN in 1999, renaming it Channel-3, which began regular transmissions in 2000, accompanied by a satellite beam.
PTV Sports is available in place of PTV Home or PTV News when an important match/event has to be given live coverage as PTV has the rights for sports coverage at terrestrial airwaves.
PTV Sports, initiated recently, airs on terrestrial beams during significant national and international sports events.
PTV-2/World also retained viewership on the terrestrial beam.
Paan Supari is perhaps the first such brand, which offers a wide range of khili paan.
Paan is also used in Hindu puja and wedding festivals and to visit relatives.
Paan is chewed mainly by Terai people, although migrants in Terai have also taken up chewing paan in recent times.
Paan is losing its appeal to farmers because of falling demand.
Paan is symbol of Prosperity in indian tradition and part of most of rituals followed.
Paan leaf is usually plucked in Kartik (October), Phalgun (February) and Ashad (June).
Paan-shupari (shupari being Bengali for areca nut) is a veritable Bangladeshi archetypal imagery, employed in wide-ranging contexts.
Paan-tamul (betel leaves and raw areca nut) may be offered to guests after tea or meals, served in a brass plate with stands called bota.
Paan-tamul is also offered to guests after the end of every feast, usually the paan-tamul-soon, or slaked lime with cardamom pods in it to freshen the breath.
Padmasambhava, the eighth-century Buddhist master who was instrumental in the introduction of Buddhism to Tibet, was believed to have been born in Oddiyana.
Painting in the Punjab developed during the reign of Iltutmish of the Khilji dynasty, who had patronized that.
Paishachi Prakrit was one of these Prakrit languages, which was spoken in north and north-western India and Punjabi developed from this Prakrit.
Pakistan Academy of Letters was established as an autonomous organization in July, 1976.
Pakistan Alpine Institute is the pioneer of "big wall climbing" in Pakistan.
Pakistan Archery Federation organizes National Archery Championship annually.
Pakistan Bureau of Statistics released religious data of Pakistan Census 2017 on 19 May 2021.
Pakistan Cricket Board also organize a franchise based T20 cricket league known as the Pakistan Super League.
Pakistan Day is a momentous milestone in the history of Pakistan movement.
Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority regularises the TV Channels in Pakistan.
Pakistan Eventing was launched in July 2005 in partnership with The Equestrian & Tent Pegging Federation of Pakistan in an attempt to qualify Pakistan for its first Olympic equestrian qualification.
Pakistan Federation Baseball has hosted the Asian Baseball Cup several times, with the national team also winning the tournament in several editions.
Pakistan National Council of the Arts also known as PNCA (Urdu: پاکستان قومی انجمن برائے فنون) is a federal institute under the National Heritage and Culture Division, Government of Pakistan.
Pakistan National Council of the Arts has a Children Art Workshop section.
Pakistan Post released four commemorative stamps in July 1948 for the country's first independence anniversary.
Pakistan Super League is one of the largest cricket leagues of the world with a brand value of about Rs.
Pakistan Swimming Federation is the governing body of swimming in the Pakistan.
Pakistan Tenpin Bowling Federation is affiliated with Asian Bowling Federation and World Bowling.
Pakistan Volleyball Federation is the governing body of Volleyball in Pakistan.
Pakistan also went to West Indies and Zimbabwe for two Match and lone Test match.
Pakistan also won the 2017 ICC Champions Trophy by defeating arch-rivals India in the final.
Pakistan also won the ACC Asia Cup in 2000 and 2012 and all three versions of the Austral-Asia Cup.
Pakistan batted conservatively yet lost wickets at regular intervals.
Pakistan became a culturally monolithic, increasingly Islamic state, with smaller religious minorities than ever.
Pakistan belongs to those nations who have the world's worst literacy rate, which is the main reason for its slow agricultural growth and sluggish economy.
Pakistan bowled Australia out for 187 in the second innings, giving the hosts a target of 68.
Pakistan bowled out for just 128 runs, where India reached the target with only 2 wickets given.
Pakistan came back with 249 on board, giving the host a target of 220.
Pakistan captain, Sarfaraz Ahmed stated (after the opening match against India) "I said to the boys, the tournament doesn't finish here.
Pakistan chased it down in 57.3 overs, the fastest chase in Test cricket history.
Pakistan competed for the first time at the World Championships in 2009.
Pakistan dropped catches during the first power-play and conceded many runs.
Pakistan earned its first Olympic Badminton Qualification after receiving a tripartite invitation for the 2020 Tokyo Summer Olympics.
Pakistan finished 5th in the 2023 Cricket World Cup, losing 5 of their 9 matches and narrowly missing out on the semi finals.
Pakistan finished third in group B and qualified for the quarterfinals.
Pakistan grows a large variety of betel leaf, specifically in the coastal areas of Sindh, although paan is also imported in large quantities from Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.
Pakistan had a strong showing at the championship, securing a total of 14 medals — 10 gold, 3 silver, and 1 bronze.
Pakistan had hosted a number of international tournaments and has many professional training centers around the country.
Pakistan had only appeared in the international stage three times as they were eliminated in the group stage in the 1993, 1995 and 1997 edition of the Sudirman Cup.
Pakistan has 26 properties on its tentative list.
Pakistan has a vibrant media landscape and enjoys independence to a large extent.
Pakistan has a vibrant media landscape; among the most dynamic and outspoken in South Asia.
Pakistan has a vibrant media landscape; among the most dynamic in South Asia and world.
Pakistan has a wide variety of breads, often prepared in a tandoor.
Pakistan has around 300 privately owned daily newspapers.
Pakistan has been accused on undercounting minority population over the decades.
Pakistan has been known for its high turnover of head coaches.
Pakistan has been plagued by security concerns and domestic instability due to terrorism and the war on terror, restricting it as a venue for international cricket in the 21st century.
Pakistan has diverse folk traditions, with each region reflecting its local culture and language through its musical traditions.
Pakistan has many shrines, sights, sounds and symbols that have significance to Pakistani nationalists.
Pakistan has over 231.69 million adherents of Islam (excluding the administrative territory of Azad Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan), making it the world's second-largest country by Muslim population.
Pakistan has picked up several medals over the years in weightlifting.
Pakistan has qualified for the preliminary rounds of the World Polo Championship three times.
Pakistan has seen success at amateur-level boxing, despite a lack of necessary equipment and facilities.
Pakistan has the second largest number of Muslims in the world after Indonesia.
Pakistan has the world's largest Muslim majority city (Karachi).
Pakistan has tried to make the best of the situation by offering to host its "home" matches on neutral territory in the United Arab Emirates.
Pakistan has won medals at the Olympic and Commonwealth Games.
Pakistan have also been runner ups in several Asia Cup editions.
Pakistan host a number of international squash tournaments and have many professional training centres around the country.
Pakistan instituted the Defence of Pakistan Day to commemorate the day when the Indian forces crossed into Pakistan.
Pakistan is a major exporter and consumer of rice.
Pakistan is a multilingual country with over 70 languages spoken as first languages.
Pakistan is also an official member of the International Cricket Council and the Asian Cricket Council.
Pakistan is an ethnically and linguistically diverse country.
Pakistan is an official member of the International Cricket Council and the Asian Cricket Council.
Pakistan is known as one of the best manufacturers of the official FIFA World Cup ball.
Pakistan is known as the manufacturer of the official FIFA World Cup ball.
Pakistan is set to host the 2025 South Asian Games.
Pakistan made their first tour of England in 1954 and drew the series 1–1 after a victory at The Oval in which fast bowler Fazal Mahmood took 12 wickets.
Pakistan men's national team has had success on the international stage having a best international ranking of 1st in the Test, ODI and T20I cricket.
Pakistan national beach handball team made their debut in IHF World Championship at the 2008 edition, finishing at 10th position.
Pakistan national teams regularly participate in international home and away series.
Pakistan nearly chased the target, but wickets in crucial interval gave them backward.
Pakistan now has a large network of domestic, privately owned 24-hour news media and television channels.
Pakistan participated in the 2019 Cricket World Cup in England where they finished fifth in the round robin group stage and narrowly missed out on the knockout stage.
Pakistan participated in the 2022 Asian Games in China and the 2023 Cricket World Cup in India.
Pakistan plans to increase this figure to 10% by 2015 and subsequently to 15% by 2020.
Pakistan played a home series against Zimbabwe in May 2015 after 6 years.
Pakistan played for the Group 2, with mighty oppositions.
Pakistan produces its own limited tea in Shinkiari farms; however, it ranks as the third largest importer of tea in the world.
Pakistan qualified for the semi-finals after superior net run rate than India.
Pakistan ratified the convention on 23 July 1976, making its sites eligible for inclusion on the list.
Pakistan reached its peak in the 1980s and 1990s during the reigns of Jahangir Khan and Jansher Khan.
Pakistan scored 116 before India scored 145.
Pakistan started off well with openers Kamran Akmal and Shahzaib Hasan adding 48 runs for the 1st wicket before Kamran Akmal was stumped by Kumar Sangakkara by the first delivery of Sanath Jayasuriya.
Pakistan started poorly in the 2015 Cricket World Cup.
Pakistan still has a low literacy rate relative to other countries.
Pakistan teachers face knowledge gaps regarding human rights due to outdated teacher education curriculum.
Pakistan team contests with India in the Cricket World Cup have resulted in packed stadiums and highly charged atmospheres.
Pakistan then won their next four games against Zimbabwe, UAE, South Africa and Ireland.
Pakistan took a lead of 119 runs when they were dismissed at 199.
Pakistan visited West Indies in 1958 for a five-test series.
Pakistan was defeated by Bangladesh in the Bronze Medal match to finish fourth in the 2022 Asian Games.
Pakistan was finally actualised through the partition of India in 1947 on the basis of Two Nation Theory.
Pakistan was founded to advance the cause of Muslims.
Pakistan was immediately identified as a migrant state born amid bloodshed.
Pakistan was knocked out from the tournament with this result.
Pakistan was runner-up in the inaugural World Twenty20 (2007) in South Africa and won the World Twenty20 in England in 2009.
Pakistan was the fulcrum of Indus Valley Civilization, one of the oldest civilizations in the world.
Pakistan went on to win the T20I series 3–0.
Pakistan were given Test status in 1952 following a recommendation from India, but faced limited international success until the 1980s, when they became fixtures in the latter stages of tournaments.
Pakistan were runner ups in the 1999 Cricket World Cup and 2007 and 2022 T20 World Cups.
Pakistan were ruthless, as they emphatically won against the West Indies side by 10 wickets, due to another brilliant bowling display.
Pakistan won both ODI and T20I series comfortably.
Pakistan won gold in the 2010 and 2019 edition of the South Asian Games beating India by 37–31 and 30–29 respectively.
Pakistan won the 1992 Cricket World Cup, beating England by 22 runs in the final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on 25 March 1992.
Pakistan won the 2020 Kabaddi World Cup (circle style) at the National Stadium in Lahore, after a close contest against India by 43–41.
Pakistan won the T20I series 2–0 and the ODI series 2–0 after the third match ended in a draw due to rain.
Pakistan won the T20I series 2–0 and the ODI series 2–1.
Pakistan won the T20I series 3–1 and the ODI series 2–1 in the same tour under the captaincy of Sarfaraz Ahmed.
Pakistan won their last Super eight match against Australia by 32 runs, where Saeed Ajmal performed well in the match by taking 3 wickets for 17 runs.
Pakistan's Christian community developed a "growing sense of concern", particularly over the strict blasphemy laws, that prohibit any insults against Muhammad and make the crime punishable by death.
Pakistan's Constitution and laws were written in English and are now being re-written in the local languages.
Pakistan's First Big Wall Climbing Expedition has been completed by Imran Junaidi and Usman Tariq in September 2013.
Pakistan's Hissam Ali Haider is the highest cap played in the Asian circuit.
Pakistan's Jahangir Khan is widely regarded as the greatest squash player of all time, followed by his compatriot Jansher Khan.
Pakistan's census does not include the 1.4 million citizens of Afghanistan who are temporarily residing in Pakistan.
Pakistan's chase was unsuccessful as they were bowled out for just 82 runs.
Pakistan's cricket faced a major setback in March 2009, when the Sri Lankan team was attacked in Lahore, leading to a suspension of international cricket tours in the country for nearly a decade.
Pakistan's cricket team's current logo is a star, usually in the color gold or green, with the word "Pakistan" (پاکِستان) written inside in Urdu, Pakistan's national language.
Pakistan's cricket teams take part in domestic competitions such as the Quaid-e-Azam Trophy, the Patron's Trophy, ABN-AMRO Twenty-20 Cup, and the ABN-AMRO Champions Trophy.
Pakistan's ethnic and cultural diversity, diverse climates, geographical environments, and availability of different produce lead to diverse regional cuisines.
Pakistan's fifth largest city, Hyderabad, lies about 130 miles north of the mouths of the Indus.
Pakistan's first Test match was played in Delhi in October 1952 as part of a five Test series which India won 2–1.
Pakistan's first Test match was played in Delhi in October 1952 as part of a five Test series.
Pakistan's first fashion week was held in November 2009.
Pakistan's first non-Muslim Chief Justice of the Pakistan Supreme Court was Justice A. R. Cornelius.
Pakistan's literacy rate is lower than its neighbours in South Asia at 60.65 percent.
Pakistan's literacy rate is ranked 113 in a total of 120 countries.
Pakistan's media sector is highly influenced by the ownership structure.
Pakistan's most successful event in the Commonwealth Games has been Wrestling, where it has won 46 medals, 21 of which have been Gold.
Pakistan's population is projected to increase to 367.8 million by 2050.
Pakistan's population of children not in school (22.8 million children) is the second largest in the world after Nigeria.
Pakistan's sporting prowess has declined sharply in recent years, while cricket remains widely popular, other sports have suffered due to neglect from both the government and sporting authorities.
Pakistan's win often cheered on by crowds of fans from England's Pakistani communities, marked its first world title since Imran Khan's "cornered tigers" had won the 1992 World Cup.
Pakistan, Australia and Bangladesh were in Group A. Pakistan won the first match against Bangladesh by 21 runs.
Pakistan, captained by Mohammed Saeed, won the first match by an innings and the second by 10 wickets.There were no domestic matches at all in 1949–50 when two touring teams arrived.
Pakistan, needing to win to qualify for the next stage after losing to the West Indies in their opening match, were put into bat by Ireland.
Pakistani Christians also distinguished themselves as great fighter pilots in the Pakistan Air Force.
Pakistani English writing has had some readership in the country.
Pakistani Punjab is now over 2% Christian, with very few Hindus and Sikhs left.
Pakistani Radio and Television, which was established in 1964 was also brought under the strict control of the government.
Pakistani Sunnis generally follow the Hanafi school of jurisprudence.
Pakistani architecture is the architecture styles of the Indus Valley region throughout its ancient, medieval and modern periods.
Pakistani art (Urdu: پاکستانی فن) has a long tradition and history.
Pakistani athletes compete in various athletic events.
Pakistani authorities have issued him a passport that stated Judaism as his religion and have allowed him to travel to Israel.
Pakistani brides traditionally opt for lehengas, anarkalis, or shararas and ghararas.
Pakistani children start playing cricket at a young age.
Pakistani cinema entered into a decline during the regime of Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq (1978–1988), who began his Islamization process across the country.
Pakistani cinema has played an important part in the country's culture.
Pakistani cinema includes films made in various Pakistani languages, which reflect the linguistic diversity of the country itself.
Pakistani cinema is made up of various sub-industries, including Lollywood, which makes motion pictures in Urdu and Punjabi.
Pakistani cinemas did not suffer much from the decision to remove the films and instead received better attendances.
Pakistani clothing is the traditional and modern styles of dress worn by the people of Pakistan, reflecting the country's diverse cultures, regions, and ethnic backgrounds.
Pakistani clubs used to be considered as lightweight in comparison to other Asian clubs and defeats in the AFC President's Cup suggest that this may have some foundation.
Pakistani cuisine (Urdu: پاکستانی پکوان, romanized: pākistānī pakwān) is a blend of regional cooking styles and flavours from across the Indian subcontinent, Central and West Asia.
Pakistani cuisine is traditionally centered around meat-based dishes.
Pakistani dishes are known for being aromatic.
Pakistani dramas are shown in Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Nepal.
Pakistani dramas, like serials elsewhere, reflect the country's culture.
Pakistani dramas, or Pakistani serials, are televised serials produced in Pakistan.
Pakistani fashion industry is introducing Pakistani traditional dresses all over the world as cultural representatives and is becoming a reason to introduce international trends in Pakistan.
Pakistani female athletes have also represented Pakistan at the international level, such as Shabana Akhtar, who was the first Pakistani female athlete to participate at the Olympics.
Pakistani feminists are usually concerned about depiction of women in Pakistani drama TV serials, they receive many of those with skepticism & reservation.
Pakistani films during this period attracted large audiences and had a strong cult following.
Pakistani fishermen in the delta have increasingly faced detention for accidentally straying over into Indian waters while fishing.
Pakistani folk music refers to the local genre of folk music that originates from Pakistan.
Pakistani food makes use of fresh, hand-pounded masalas.
Pakistani literature's main official platform is the Pakistan Academy of Letters, whose work is overseen by a Board of Governors.
Pakistani media has also played a vital role in exposing corruption.
Pakistani media, Film Industry, and Internet have the biggest roles in promoting fashion in Pakistan.
Pakistani music ranges from diverse forms of provincial folk music and traditional styles such as Qawwali and Ghazal to modern musical forms that fuse traditional and western music.
Pakistani opening batsman Ahmed Shehzad scored the maiden T20I century by a Pakistani.
Pakistani players have won the Squash World Open 17 times, and British Open 12 times, the highest by any nation.
Pakistani squash players still have a big presence in both the men’s and women’s games, but no one player has reached the standards of past players.
Pakistani women wear the shalwar kameez which is worn in different styles, colours, and designs which can be decorated with different styles and designs of embroidery.
Pakistanis also frequently write other Pakistani languages in the Latin script online.
Pakistanis compete in various international events notably the World Cup which commenced in 2014.
Pakistanis drink a great deal of tea, locally called "chai".
Pakistanis eat breads made of wheat flour as a staple part of their diet.
Pakistanis wear clothes ranging from exquisite colours and designs to various types of fabric such as silk, chiffon, cotton, etc.
Pakistanis will receive four-week internships at U.S. media organizations.
Pakodain Bengal (some parts) "Jhal pitha" may be interpreted in these states as deep-fried balls of finely chopped onions, green chilis, and spices mixed in gram flour.
Pakols have also been worn in the Kashmir Valley, where they were introduced by seasonal migrants of ethnic Shins/Dards, hailing from Gurez.
Pakols must have spread at a quick pace among the locals, now renamed Nuristanis, after and partially as a consequence of the conquest of Kafiristan by Abdul Rahman Khan of Afghanistan.
Pakols were introduced to Nuristan from neighbouring Chitral sometime in the late nineteenth century.
Pakora (pronounced [pəˈkɔːɽa]) is a fritter originating from the Indian subcontinent.
Pakoras are eaten as a snack or appetiser, often accompanied by chutney or raita.
Pakoras are made by coating ingredients, usually vegetables, in a spiced batter, and then deep frying them.
Palestinians and Jordanians decorate their homes and prepare sumptuous meals for family and friends.
Paluskar's contemporary (and occasional rival) Vishnu Narayan Bhatkhande recognized the many rifts that had appeared in the structure of Indian classical music.
Panj is cognate with Sanskrit pañca (पञ्च), Greek pénte (πέντε), and Lithuanian Penki, all of which meaning 'five'; āb is cognate with Sanskrit áp (अप्) and with the Av- of Avon.
Panjguri It includes most of the Kharan region, with the kech River forming its southern border and the Rakhshan River its northern border, and Kolwa located to its east.
Parathas are mostly made using all-purpose flour instead of whole wheat flour.
Parchin kari, a method of decoration on a large scale-inlaid work of jewels and Jali work has been used to decorate the structure.
Parents who speak Punjabi opt to only communicate to their children in Urdu or English, with Punjabi being seen as paindu (shorthand for "backwardness" or "uneducated").
Parliament through the Second Amendment to the Constitution on 7 September 1974, under Prime Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, declared Ahmadi Muslims as non-Muslims.
Parsis have entered Pakistani public life as social workers, business folk, journalists and diplomats.
Part bull, part zebra, with a majestic horn, it has been a source of speculation.
Partial successes were recorded with Larki Panjaban and Javed Sheikh's Yeh Dil Aap Ka Huwa grossing over Rs200 million rupees.
Pashto also has a rich heritage of proverbs (Pashto matalúna, sg.
Pashto dialects are divided into two categories, the "soft" southern grouping of Paṣ̌tō, and the "hard" northern grouping of Pax̌tō (Pakhtu).
Pashto employs the Pashto alphabet, a modified form of the Perso-Arabic alphabet or Arabic script.
Pashto has no official status at the federal level.
Pashto is "one of the primary markers of ethnic identity" amongst Pashtuns.
Pashto is a subject–object–verb (SOV) language with split ergativity.
Pashto is one of the two official languages of Afghanistan, along with Dari Persian.
Pashto music is predominantly found in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.
Pashto speakers are found in other major cities of Pakistan, most notably Karachi, Sindh, which may have the largest Pashtun population of any city in the world.
Pashto-speakers have long had a tradition of oral literature, including proverbs, stories, and poems.
Pashtun cuisine is characterized by a preference for rice-based dishes, kebabs, and lamb.
Pashtun cuisine is characterized by their own traditional dishes as well as some influence by outsiders.
Pashtun culture (Pashto: پښتون کلتور) is based on Pashtunwali, as well as speaking of the Pashto language and wearing Pashtun dress.
Pashtun diaspora communities in other countries around the world speak Pashto, especially the sizable communities in the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia.
Pashtun dress differ according to region but usually people wear traditional Peshawari chappal as footwear and a Pakol or turban as headwear.
Pashtun women commonly wear shalwar kameez and in some regions, particularly in Tribal areas, women wear firaq partug which is also worn in neighbouring Afghanistan.
Pashtuns are an Iranic ethnolinguistic group and are Pakistan's second largest ethnicity.
Pashtuns are traditionally strict and conservative regarding the preservation of their culture.
Pashtuns use the Vikrami calendar in Pakistan, and the Solar Hijri calendar in Afghanistan.
Pashtunwali and Islam are the two main factors which make the baseline for the social behavior in Pashtun society.
Pattis can also be divided into gwand, which usually consists of five-to-ten housing units which are adjacent to one another.
Payasam was also a staple food in Hindu temples in particular, where it is served as Prasāda to devotees.
Paying students, such as princes, were taught during the day, while non-paying ones were taught at night.
Peasants, Mughal rulers, the Punjabi Sikh residents and even the British officers during their British Raj used to show up at this festival.
People across the Sindh province condemned Masood’s comments via SMS, which ultimately resulted in the announcement of celebrating Sindhi Topi Day.
People also decorate their homes and begin preparing food for the holiday.
People gather with family and neighbors in traditional clothing and have a special Lebaran meal.
People generally dress more during this day – women choose bright dresses with beads while older people would wear papakhas.
People return to their home town or city (an exodus known as mudik) to celebrate with their families and to ask forgiveness from parents, in-laws, and other elders.
People tend to get fresh currency notes issued by State Bank of Pakistan with which they give to the children.
People visit the house of relatives, neighbour, and friends and greet each other saying "Eid Mubarak" (Happy Eid).
People visits Eid fairs to enjoy the occasion.
People would tend to wear fancy and bright clothes, while people would sing Jaramazan tunes and receive cooked bread, candy or cash in return.
Performing Arts Division of PNCA is mandated for the promotion and preservation of the Intangible Cultural Heritage.
Periods IA and II at Sarai Khola seem to show continuity from Period I, with the appearance of red burnished wares.
Persian still held its status, despite the spread of Urdu, well into the early years of the British rule in South Asia.
Persian was officially abolished as a language of administration with the arrival of the British: in Sindh in 1843 and in Punjab in 1849.
Persian was the official of the region up until the late 19th century when the English passed several laws to replace it with local languages.
Persian, the literary language of the royal court, was more widely used in government institutions, while the Pashtun tribes spoke Pashto as their native tongue.
Perso-Arabic for Sindhi was also made digitally accessible relatively earlier.
Peshawar Valley and Taxila are littered with ruins of stupas and monasteries of this period.
Peshawar and Quetta centers followed by 1974.
Peshawar's Bacha Khan International Airport is 155 kilometers away.
Peshawari chappal and Khussa are popular foot wear.
Photos of many of the thousands of extant inscriptions are published in the Corpus of Indus Seals and Inscriptions (1987, 1991, 2010), edited by Asko Parpola and his colleagues.
Phraotes also recounts that his father, being the son of a king, had become an orphan from a young age.
Phraotes proceeds to narrate the opportune moment he seized to reclaim his ancestral kingdom, sparked by a rebellion of the citizens of Taxila against the usurpers.
Physical remains of chicken bones with char marks have also been unearthed.
Pickles made out of mangoes, carrots, lemon, and other fruits and vegetables are also commonly used to further spice up the food.
Pietra dura, known as parchin kari in the Indian subcontinent, was the technique of decorating with inlaid stone.
Pilau is a mixed rice dish popular in the cuisines of the Indian subcontinent, Central Asia, and Middle Eastern cuisine.
Pilgrims performing the Hajj typically perform the tawaf and saee of Hajj on Eid al-Adha, along with the ritual stoning of the Devil on the Eid day and the following days.
Players rarely wear helmets, the horses' legs often have no bandages, and mallets often have no grips or straps.
Players will receive 3% of annual revenue from ICC, which will be paid over and above their monthly retainers and match fees.
Plenty of other mawlids were written in Ottoman times.
Plutarch's accounts suggest that Alexander the Great encountered a young Chandragupta Maurya in the Punjab region, possibly during his time at the university.
Poetry had a huge influence on Ottoman classical music, in fact served as basis.
Poetry is commonly seen in truck art across northern India, and particularly in Uttar Pradesh.
Points are awarded for successful tags, while defenders earn a point for tackling the raider.
Poland beat England in the final to retain their title.
Poland retained their title by beating hosts Cyprus in the final, 29–15.
Political parties Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (F) party is against giving reserved seats for minorities.
Political pressure on media is mostly done indirectly.
Political songs are regularly featured during rallies, gatherings, and protests to energize crowds.
Politically, groups like the Pakistan Christian Congress have arisen.
Polo and traditional sports like kabaddi and other well-known games are also played.
Polo is an equestrian sport first played in Central Asia in 6th century BC.
Polo is believed to have originated in Persia, and continues to be an important sport within the country with several large annual competitions.
Popular Sufi culture is centered on Thursday night gatherings at shrines and annual festivals which feature Sufi music and dance.
Popular national songs like Dil Dil Pakistan and Jazba-e-Junoon are played and sung all over the country.
Post-7th century borrowings came primarily from Persian and Hindi-Urdu, with Arabic words being borrowed through Persian, but sometimes directly.
Post-colonial national identity is expressed in modern structures such as the Faisal Mosque, the Minar-e-Pakistan, and the Mazar-e-Quaid.
Pothwari speakers however are included in the total numbers for Punjabi.
Power over the subcontinent was passed from the East India Company to the British Crown.
Pre-school education is designed for the 3–5 years old and usually consists of three stages: Play Group, Nursery and Kindergarten (also called 'KG' or 'Prep').
Precise spelling aside, the name was first adopted in the 1960s by regional social and political leaders.
Presently, the known tariqas in Pakistan have maintained their organisations usually known as tehreeks and have their khanqahs for the dhikr of Allah, as per the old age Sufi tradition.
Preservation work for Mohenjo-daro was suspended in December 1996 after funding from the Pakistani government and international organizations stopped.
Previous governments in the area of the Punjab had favoured Persian, Hindustani, or even earlier standardised versions of local registers as the language of the court or government.
Previously domestic cricket operated with departmental, city and regional teams - a set up encouraged by Abdul Hafeez Kardar.
Previously, scholars believed that the decline of the Harappan civilisation led to an interruption of urban life in the Indian subcontinent.
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif also mentioned that the marriage registrars will be established in areas where Hindus stay.
Princess Diana, Kate Middleton and Prince William wore it during their visits to Pakistan.
Prior to 1947, the community resided in the Quetta, Loralai and Maikhter regions of the British Indian province of Baluchistan.
Prior to 2002, News Agencies in Pakistan were completely unregulated.
Prior to British rule, it was chewed without tobacco, and it is still rarely chewed with tobacco.
Prior to the 1947 partition of India into the Republic of India and Pakistan, the Lahore film industry was initially part of the British Raj-era cinema of India.
Prior to the inception of Pakistan, Sindhi was the national language of Sindh.
Private football clubs are severely strapped for cash and barely surviving a season.
Professional cricket has been played in Pakistan since its formation in 1947.
Prominent Gilgiti dishes, such as the Chapshoro have gained massive popularity among different parts of Pakistan.
Prominent in Sindhi culture, Sindhi poetry (Sindhi: سنڌي شاعري) continues an oral tradition dating back a thousand years.
Provinces in Pakistan are divided into districts, and sources on "Saraiki" often describe the territory of a dialect or dialect group according to the districts.
Provinces or "satrapy" were established with provincial capitals.
Provincial and regional languages such as Punjabi, Sindhi, Pashto and others may be taught in their respective provinces, particularly in regional language-medium schools.
Public expenditure on education as a percentage of GDP was actually reduced in 16 years and maintained in 5 years between 1972–73 and 2008–09.
Pukkusāti's kingdom was described as being 100 Yojanas in width, approximately 500 to 800 miles wide, with his capital at Taxila in modern day Punjab as stated in early Jatakas.
Punjabi (پنجابی‎) is an Indo-Aryan language primarily spoken in the Punjab province of Pakistan, with the prominent dialect being the Majhi dialect, written in the Shahmukhi script.
Punjabi Muslims are the third-largest Islam-adhering Muslim ethnicity in the world, globally, after Arabs and Bengalis.
Punjabi Sikh forays into painting were mostly limited to wall paintings decorating the walls of religious sites up until the early 19th century.
Punjabi also has second language official status in Delhi along with Urdu, and in Haryana.
Punjabi dances are performed either by men or by women.
Punjabi emerged as an Apabhramsha, a degenerated form of Prakrit, in the 7th century AD and became stable by the 10th century.
Punjabi has a canonical word order of SOV (subject–object–verb).
Punjabi has also had minor influence from and on neighbouring languages such as Sindhi, Haryanvi, Pashto and Hindustani.
Punjabi is also a compulsory language in Haryana, and other states with a significant Punjabi speaking minority are required to offer Punjabi medium education.
Punjabi is not a language of instruction for primary or secondary school students in Punjab Province (unlike Sindhi and Pashto in other provinces).
Punjabi is the most widely spoken language in Pakistan, being the native language of 88.9 million people, or approximately 37% of the country's population.
Punjabi is the most widely spoken language in Pakistan, the eleventh-most widely spoken in India, and also present in the Punjabi diaspora in various countries.
Punjabi is the most widely spoken language in Pakistan.
Punjabi is the official language of the Indian state of Punjab, and has the status of an additional official language in Haryana and Delhi.
Punjabi is unusual among the Indo-Aryan languages and the broader Indo-European language family in its usage of lexical tone.
Punjabi men wear the straight cut Punjabi shalwar kameez, kurta, or shalwar.
Punjabi murals can depict religious or secular settings.
Punjabi music is used by western musicians in many ways, such as mixing with other compositions to produce award-winning music.
Punjabi music started to develop and alter in the 20th century as it was impacted by Western musical genres including pop, rock, and hip-hop.
Punjabi songs are sung, and everybody rejoices.
Punjabi suits are also popular among young women in Bangladesh and are especially popular amongst school girls in India.
Punjabi villages, known as pinds, which function as social-units, can be traditionally divided in different ways.
Punjabi wedding traditions and ceremonies are traditionally conducted in Punjabi and are a strong reflection of Punjabi culture.
Punjabi women wear the straight cut Punjabi shalwar kameez, which is most frequently worn.
Punjabi,[g] sometimes spelled Panjabi,[h] is an Indo-Aryan language native to the Punjab region of Pakistan and India.
Punjabis are an Indo-Aryan ethnolinguistic group native to the Punjab region between India and Pakistan.
Pupils in secondary schools can choose the language as an elective, while Punjabi instruction or study remains rare in higher education.
Purdah is still common in the rural elite and urban middle class, but not among rural farmers.
Purushapura along with Mathura became the capital of the great empire stretching from Central Asia to Northern India with Gandhara being in the midst of it.
Pyramidal structures from the 16th century feature the use of minarets topped with floral motifs in a style unique to tombs dating from the Turkic Trakhan dynasty.
Pāṇini, the grammarian who codified the rules that would define Classical Sanskrit, has also been part of the community at Taxila.
Pə́ṭa Xazāná (پټه خزانه) is a Pashto manuscript claimed to be written by Mohammad Hotak under the patronage of the Pashtun emperor Hussain Hotak in Kandahar; containing an anthology of Pashto poets.
Qawl (Arabic: قَوْل) means 'utterance (of the Muhammad)'.
Qawwali gained international acclaim through Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, often hailed as "Shahenshah-e-Qawwali" (Urdu: شهنشاهِ قوالی, lit.
Qawwali is a form of Sufi Islamic devotional singing originating in South Asia.
Qawwali is the music that a Qawwāl sings.
Qawwali music is performed by a group of about 8 to 12 musicians, called humnawa (Urdu: ہم نوا, lit.
Qawwalis tend to begin gently and build steadily to a very high energy level in order to induce hypnotic states both among the musicians and within the audience.
Qawwals bear the responsibility of maintaining a spiritually appropriate context for such songs, so as not to distract from the religious focus of the Qawwali occasion.
Qawwals themselves are central figures within Qawwali ritual but are not regarded as the focus and are still regarded as part of the servant class.
Qaṣīdas were typically much longer poems, with up to 100 couplets.
Quaid-e-Azam Mazar Management Board is responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of Quaid's Mazar and take decisions for Quaid's Mausoleum.
Questions without a question word are characterized by rising intonation at the end of the sentence.
Quetta born Haider Ali won gold at the 2002 Commonwealth Games as a Featherweight and went on to become a professional boxer.
Quetta, the provincial capital of Balochistan, has several historical monuments such as Pirak, the Chaukhandi tombs and the Quaid-e-Azam Residency.
Qureshi also includes "typical Qawwal tunes" (Qawwālī kī thet dhunen) in this category, referring to tunes that can be used for a variety of poems based on the music's structural features.
Radio channels are numerous and considered a very important source of information - especially in the rural areas.
Ragas may originate from any source, including religious hymns, folk tunes, and music from outside the Indian subcontinent.
Raids alternate between teams throughout the game.
Rainfall is low, and mainly occurs in the monsoon season (July–September).
Raja Chakradhar Singh of Raigarh was the last of the modern-era Maharajas to patronize Hindustani classical musicians, singers and dancers.
Rallia Ram of Lahore served as General Secretary.
Ramadan in the Ottoman era was passed with great happiness due to the existence of various kinds of entertainment.
Ramazon Hayit or Roʻza hayiti is a public holiday in Uzbekistan and widely celebrated.
Ranikot Fort is also a landmark of the Indus Valley civilization.
Ranjit Singh used the fort's Summer Palace as his own residence, while the Moti masjid was repurposed as a Gurdwara called Moti mandir, and later used as royal treasury.
Rarely used plucked or struck string instruments include the surbahar, sursringar, santoor, and various versions of the slide guitar.
Rather than building huge monuments like his predecessors to demonstrate their power, Shah Jahan commissioned elegant monuments.
Ravana and Narada from Hindu tradition are accomplished musicians; Saraswati with her veena is the goddess of music.
Rawalpindi-Islamabad and Karachi centers were established in 1965 and 1966, respectively.
Realising the potential for success in film, Waheed Murad entered the industry then.
Recent report from Reporters without borders implies considerable improvement in the freedom of press compared to the preceding years.
Recent research has traced the Indus Valley civilization to even earlier ancestry.
Recently Pakistan has launched Digital terrestrial broadcast in selected areas only in collaboration with China.
Recently the Sikh community within Pakistan has been making every effort possible to progress in Pakistan.
Recently, it was also introduced in the Kashmir Valley by seasonal migrants of ethnic Shins hailing from the Gurez and Tuleil areas in north Kashmir's Bandipore district.
Recently, the Dubai government has banned the import and sale of betel quid and the like.
Recitation ceases when they get to the place of Eid or once the Imam commences activities.
Regarding teacher education programs, there are multiple paths in which a pre-service teacher can take.
Regional rivalries, particularly with India, are presented in absolute moral and religious terms, and jihad is often characterized as an armed and moral struggle.
Relics from Taxila were also sent to Sri Lanka for the 2017 Vesak holiday as part of an effort to showcase the region's Buddhist heritage.
Religious and social atmospheres in early nineteenth century India played a significant role in the development of the Urdu register.
Religious iconography, poetry and political logos are also common.
Religious murals depicting female figuratives were often Shaktist in-nature.
Religious, social, and political factors arose during the European colonial period in India that advocated a distinction between Urdu and Hindi, leading to the Hindi–Urdu controversy.
Religious-themed murals are often found at religious shrines, such as Hindu and Sikh temples.
Remnants of dairy products were also discovered.
Renovation was supervised by the architect Nawab Alam Yar Jung Bahadur.
Renowned for their significant support of Buddhism, this assertion is supported by swathes of discovered donations within their principal domain, between Taxila and Bajaur.
Renowned ghazal singer, and pioneer of Telugu ghazals, Ghazal Srinivas popularized the ghazal in Telugu.
Reporters without borders in its 2020 Press Freedom Index ranked Pakistan number 145 out of 180 countries based on freedom of the press.
Representations of the lover's powerlessness to resist his feelings often include lyrically exaggerated violence.
Research and Development Foundation, a Pakistani NGO, has also started implementing solar desalination in six villages in Thatta with funding from Oxfam.
Research indicates that female university students face more gender discrimination than males in the capital city of Pakistan.
Resistance came in the form of Hardik Pandya, who scored a brisk 76.
Resource-managed man-made forests like Changa Manga, Kamalia plantation and Chichawatni plantation have also been planted to serve purpose and conserve forests.
Restoration projects included works at the Sheesh Mahal, Alamgiri Gate, and Hazuri Bagh.
Restoration works begun in 1939 continued after the Independence of Pakistan, and were completed in 1960 at a total cost of 4.8 million Rupees.
Rice dishes and kebabs feature prominently in Pashtun cuisine.
Rice is the staple food of Kashmiris and has been so since ancient times.
Rich Pakistani Hindus go to India and release their loved ones' remains into the Ganges.
Rich decoration was used to embellish rooms and halls.
Riparian zone along the river Indus have been managed to avoid excess flooding.
Rising tone marks the question and falling tone the statement.
Rock bands Vital Signs and Strings gained immense popularity amongst the youth.
Roman Urdu is the writing of Urdu in the Latin script.
Ronojoy Sen speculates in his book Nation At Play that kabaddi originated during the Vedic period (between 1500 BC and 500 BC).
Roughly twelve per cent of Pakistani Muslims self-describe or have beliefs overlapping with non-denominational Muslims.
Rowers like Ali Hassan, Maqbool Ali, Zohaib Zia Hashmi, and Muhammad Asad Khan have won medals at international events and in International School Rowing events.
Rudaki (858–941 CE) is considered the most important Persian ghazal poet of this period, and the founder of classical Persian literature.
Ruins dating from the Early Harappan period around 1300 BCE have also been discovered in the Taxila area, though the area was eventually abandoned after the collapse of the Indus Valley civilisation.
Russian Muslims go to festive worships at mosques in the morning of Eid al-Fitr, after which they often visit older relatives as a sign of respect.
SNC also aims at mainstreaming madrassas, which might lead to spilling over of extremist and more theological subjects into formal schools.
SRE is not taught at most schools in Pakistan, although this trend is being rebuked by some urban schools.
STN pioneered the terrestrial beam programming of CNN International in Pakistan, followed by BBC World.
STN's broadcast combined CNN programming, NTM's slot, and limited broadcasts of BBC World and German DW TV, continuing successfully until 1999.
Saadat Hassan Manto (1912–1955), a prominent writer of short stories of South Asia writing mainly in Urdu, produced great literature out of the events relating to the India-Pakistan independence.
Sacred artworks and architectural decorations used limestone for stucco composed by a mixture of local crushed rocks (i.e.
Sadequain and Gulgee are known for their calligraphy and paintings.
Saeed Anwar's 194 runs against India remained the record for most runs by a batsman in an ODI for 11 years which was broken by Fakhar Zaman's 210 against Zimbabwe in 2018.
Said to be located between Kashmir, Multan and Kabul, al-Usaifan is identified with kingdom of Taxila by some authors.
Sajji is familiar in other parts of the country.
Salad is generally taken as a side dish with the main course, rather than as an appetizer beforehand.
Salafism, which is represented in Saudi Arabia and Qatar, does not celebrate the Mawlid.
Salam heavily contributed to the rise of Pakistani physics to the Physics community in the world.
Salam holds the distinction of being the first Pakistani to receive the Nobel Prize in any field.
Salam, Sheldon Glashow and Steven Weinberg shared the 1979 Nobel prize for this work.
Saleem represented Pakistan in the 16th World Horseback Archery Championship 2021 held in Tehran, Iran.
Salman Butt became the hero of the match with his 73 runs from just 46 balls.
Samanta succeeded him, and it was during his reign that the region of Kabul was lost to the Persianate Saffarid empire.
Samar Khan is the first woman in the world to cycle on the Biafo Glacier and the first Pakistani to ride a bicycle on snow in Gilgit-Baltistan.
Sambousek is most popular during Ramadan.
Sambusak (Hebrew: סמבוסק) comes in several distinct forms, as sambusak has been influenced differently by Sephardic and Mizrahi cuisine.
Sambuseh (Persian: سمبوسه) can often be found in the southern regions of Iran and rarely in other areas.
Samina Baig is the first Pakistani woman and the third Pakistani to climb Mount Everest.
Samina is also the first Pakistani woman and the first Muslim to climb the seven summits.
Samosa dough is also used for a flatbread called farmaas puri, which consists of rolled-up sheets of dough stacked with minced meat, which are cut into thin circles and deep fried.
Samosa is similar to Indonesian pastel, panada and epok-epok.
Samosas also exist in West African countries such as Ghana and Nigeria, where they are a common street food.
Samosas are also used in a traditional Burmese salad called samuza thoke (စမူဆာသုပ်‌; lit.
Samosas are an integral part of Goan and Portuguese cuisine, where they are a common snack.
Samosas are called samuza (စမူဆာ) in Burmese, and are an extremely popular street snack in Burma.
Samosas are called singadas in the eastern part of Nepal; the rest of the country calls it samosa.
Samosas are often accompanied by chutney, and have origins in medieval times or earlier.
Samosas are popular in the United Kingdom and the English-speaking Commonwealth including Canada, and in the United States.
Samosas in South India are made in different sizes, whose fillings are influenced by local food habits, and may include meat.
Samosas of various types are available throughout Pakistan.
Samosas, locally called samoussas, are a popular snack on Réunion and Mauritius as both islands have faced large waves of labor immigration from the Indian subcontinent.
Sanath Jayasuriya was able to stabilise the innings for Sri Lanka hitting 17 runs off 10 balls, however, Jayasuriya soon fell as he dragged a good length ball back on to the stumps.
Sandstone is a very hard material, but local Indian stonemasons were skilled in carving it with intricate detail, which was another distinguishing feature of the Mughal style.
Sangakkara and Chamara Silva added further runs before the latter was caught by Saeed Ajmal playing a pull shot off the bowling of Umar Gul.
Sanjrani Chiefdom Amir Nasir Khan Talpur .
Sara Suleri published her literary memoir, Meatless Days (1989).
Saraiki ( سرائیکی Sarā'īkī, IPA: [səɾaːiːkiː]; also spelt Siraiki, or Seraiki) is an Indo-Aryan language of the Lahnda group.
Saraiki (سرائیکی) is an Indo Aryan language of the Lahnda group spoken in central and southeastern Pakistan, primarily in the southern part of the province of Punjab.
Saraiki Unicode has been approved in 2005.
Saraiki appears to be a transitional language between Punjabi and Sindhi.
Saraiki cuisine is known for its flavorful dishes, often incorporating a variety of spices and ingredients.
Saraiki cuisine refers to the native cuisine of the Saraiki people from the Saraiki regions of Pakistan, including southern Punjab, northern Sindh, and Eastern Balochistan.
Saraiki culture is the culture of the Saraiki people, residing in Pakistan and outside Pakistan.
Saraiki is a member of Western Punjabi sub family of the Indo-Aryan subdivision of the Indo-Iranian branch of the Indo-European language family.
Saraiki is also taught at degree level at the Allama Iqbal Open University at Islamabad, and the Al-Khair University at Bhimbir have Pakistani Linguistics Departments.
Saraiki is primarily spoken in the south-western part of the province of Punjab, in an area that broadly coincides with the extent of the proposed South Punjab Province.
Saraiki is spoken by approximately 26 million people in Pakistan, ranging across southern Punjab, southern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and border regions of northern Sindh and eastern Balochistan.
Saraiki is taught as a subject in schools and colleges at higher secondary and intermediate.
Saraiki is the first language of approximately 29 million people in Pakistan according to the 2023 census.
Saraiki is to a high degree mutually intelligible with Standard Punjabi and is coshares with it a large portion of its vocabulary and morphology.
Saraiki is written using the Arabic-derived Urdu alphabet with the addition of seven diacritically modified letters to represent the implosives and the extra nasals.
Saraiki shalwar suits are Punjabi outfits which include the Bahawalpuri shalwar suit and the Multani shalwar suit.
Saraiki was considered a dialect of Punjabi by most British colonial administrators, and is still seen as such by many Punjabis.
Saraiki's consonant inventory is similar to that of neighbouring Sindhi.
Saraikis, however, consider it a language in its own right and see the use of the term "dialect" as stigmatising.
Saravani Saravan and its surrounding areas, with Khash as its northern border and Espidan as its western border.
Sarfaraz Ahmed scored Pakistan's only century against Ireland and was awarded Player of the Match against both South Africa and Ireland.
Sarfaraz Ahmed was announced as Misbah's successor.
Sarson da saag with makki di roti is usually served as the main course at a Lohri dinner.
Saudis decorate their homes and prepare sumptuous meals for family and friends.
Scenes from Indic mythology, such as the Mahabharata, are commonly found, an example being the unveiling of Draupadi.
Schoefft spent over a year in Punjab painting various local scenes and subjects.
Scholars and poets celebrate by reciting Qaṣīda al-Burda Sharif, the famous poem by 13th-century Arabic Sufi Busiri.
School textbooks and libraries were overhauled to remove un-Islamic material.
Schools may also offer drama studies, music and physical education but these are usually not examined or marked.
Scientific theories are also subject to resistance.
Script is rare and confined to potsherd inscriptions.
Sculptures and figurines depicting women have been observed as part of Harappan culture and religion, as multiple female pieces were recovered from Marshall's archaeological digs.
Seats were reserved for minorities in the national and provincial assemblies.
Secondary education in Pakistan begins in year 9 and lasts for four years.
Secondly, it allows the guest to appreciate the Sindhi Culture.
Sectarian violence became a recurring feature of the Muharram month every year, with sectarian violence between Sunnis and Shias taking place on multiple occasions.
Security measures in the country are intensified as the independence day approaches, especially in major cities and in troubled areas.
Security situation of the journalist has improved and the number of journalist killed in Pakistan has also declined considerably.
Seeing this atmosphere of despair and despondency, Syed launched his attempts to revive the spirit of progress within the Muslim community of India.
Selected houses which have auspicious ceremonies prepare eatables.
Separate electorates for Hindus and Christians were established in 1985 even though Christian and Hindu leaders complained that they felt excluded from the county's political process.
Separate electorates for Hindus and Christians were established in 1985—a policy originally proposed by Islamist leader Abul A'la Maududi.
Sephardi sambusak is generally thicker, baked, and stuffed with either cheese or beef and coated with sesame or nigella seeds.
Sesame seeds, peanuts, popcorn and other food items are also thrown into the fire.
Seven food-balls ("laddus") were found in intact form, along with two figurines of bulls and a hand-held copper adze, during excavations in 2017 from western Rajasthan.
Seven radiocarbon dates were also taken from the earlier and later Period II/Kot Diji, and seem to show this phase dates from the mid-late 3rd to early 2nd millennium BCE.
Several ancient Jain shrines are scattered across the country.
Several examples of architectural infrastructure demonstrating the influence of British design can be found in Lahore, Peshawar, and Karachi.
Several film industries are based in Pakistan, which tend to be regional and niche in nature.
Several languages and dialects spoken throughout the regions of Pakistan produced an imminent need for a uniting language.
Several of Menander's Indo-Greek successors inscribed "Follower of the Dharma," in the Kharoṣṭhī script, on their coins.
Several of the larger tombs feature carvings of animals, warriors, and weaponry – a practice uncommon to Muslim funerary monuments.
Several periodisations are employed for the IVC.
Several representations of ships are found on seals and graffiti at Harappa, Mohenjo-daro (Figs.
Several seals also show a man fighting two lions or tigers, a "Master of Animals" motif common to civilisations in Western and South Asia.
Several varieties of Areca catechu nuts were also known in the Philippines, distinguished chiefly by the shape of the fruits.
Several works of Sufi writers like Ashraf Jahangir Semnani used similar names for the Urdu language.
Sewage and waste water for buildings at the site were disposed of via a centralized drainage system that ran alongside the site's streets.
Shaan is a celebratory song performed during significant life events, such as marriages or the birth of a child.
Shah Abdul Qadir Raipuri was the first person who translated The Quran into Urdu.
Shah Faisal Mosque is akin to the Holy Kaaba in the designer's imaginative eyes.
Shah Hussain Shah is Pakistan's most accomplished judoka, boasting an impressive record of international medals.
Shah Jahan (r. 1628–1658) commissioned a baraf khana in Sirmaur to supply Agra and Delhi’s Red Fort.
Shah Jahan also commissioned the Red Fort in his new capital at Shah Jahanabad, now Old Delhi.
Shah Jahan also renovated buildings such as the Moti Masjid, Sheesh Mahal and Naulakha pavilion, which are all enclosed in the Lahore Fort.
Shah Jahan first ordered the construction of the Diwan-i-Aam in the style of a Chehel Sotoun - a Persian style 40-pillar public audience hall.
Shah Jahan's Diwan-i-Aam was destroyed in 1841 when the son of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, Sher Singh bombarded the fort in his fight against Maharani Chand Kaur, the wife of Maharaja Kharak Singh.
Shah Jahan's Shah Burj forms a quadrangle with the famous Sheesh Mahal, and Naulakha Pavilion.
Shah Jahan's first contribution to the fort commenced in the year of his coronation, 1628, and continued until 1645.
Shahid Afridi clearly stated that his team is capable of qualifying for the Semifinals.
Shahid Afridi holds numerous records i.e.
Shahid Afridi soon after, took the wicket of Isuru Udana with a googly which drifted into the right-hander, knocking the off-stump.
Shalimar's main entrance was onto the lower-most terrace, which was open to noblemen, and occasionally to the public.
Shalwar kameez (also salwar kameez and less commonly shalwar qameez) is a traditional combination dress worn by men and women in South Asia, and Central Asia.
Shalwar refers to loose trousers and kameez refers to shirts.
Shalwars are trousers which are atypically wide at the waist and narrow to a cuffed bottom.
Shalwars are trousers which are atypically wide at the waist but which narrow to a cuffed bottom.
Shalwars have been traditionally worn in a wide region which includes Eastern Europe, West Asia, Central Asia, and South Asia.
Shararas consist of a blouse or shalwar, with loose pants.
Sharjah was a popular venue attracting good crowds mostly from the South Asian population of the United Arab Emirates.
Shazli Tahir won silver and Junaid Ahmed won a bronze medal in the first CAS International Sailing Championship in April 2008.
She also cycled to Khunjerab Pass, the highest road in the world, and climbed Mount Kilimanjaro with her bike to highlight climate change.
She also received the President's Award for Pride of Performance in 2005.
She had her name in Guinness Book of World Records.
She is a TEDx speaker and climate activist, inspiring youth through her achievements in extreme cycling.
She is also the youngest Muslim woman to climb Everest, having done so at the age of 21.
She represented Pakistan at the 2008 Summer Olympics.
She speculates that pilau was an army dish in medieval India.
She was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship in 2010 and first Lahore technology reward from Information Technology University in 2017.
She was invited by Bill Gates to visit Microsoft Headquarters in the United States.
She was the first and, until 2010, the only Pakistani woman to have won a gold medal at a major international competition.
She was the youngest Olympic competitor in Pakistan's history, aged 13 at the 2004 Summer Olympics.
She won silver medal in Asian Rifle/ Pistol Championship 2024 Jakarta, Indonesia and became the first woman in the history of Pakistan to get direct berth to Olympics.
She's about fifteen years old I should think, not more, but she stands there with bangles all the way up her arm and nothing else on.
Sheesh Mahal was reserved for personal use by the imperial family and close aides.
Shehzad defeated Indian competitor James Joseph and set a new Asian record with a time of 1:32.30.
Shekkar-shekan shavand hame tutiān-e Hind Sugar-shattering (excited), have become all the parrots (poets) of Hind, Zin qand-e Pārsi ke be Bangāle miravad.
Shias allege discrimination by the Pakistani government since 1948, claiming that Sunnis are given preference in business, official positions and administration of justice.
Shias are estimated to constitute about 10-15 percent of the country's population.
Shias have long been a target of Sunni radical groups such as Lashkar-e-Jhangvi in the country.
Shingras are wrapped in a thin sheet of dough (made of all-purpose flour) and fried.
Shoaib Akhtar holds the record of delivering the fastest delivery in the history of cricket.
Shoaib Malik was announced as his successor.
Shoaib Mansoor's Bol seemed to have officially "revived" the cinema of Pakistan.
Shoaib Mansoor's Khuda Kay Liye (2007) and Bol (2011) seemed to have ushered in the revival of Pakistani cinema.
Shoba Das of Minority Rights Group International reported around 200 Baháʼís in Islamabad and between 2,000 and 3,000 Baháʼís in Pakistan, in 2013.
Shokat Ali is Pakistan's number one player and an Asian Games Gold medalist.
Sholakia holds the record of the largest Eid congregation in the world.
Shooting in Pakistan governed by National Rifle Association of Pakistan.
Shops owned by Hindus were also attacked in Sukkur, Sindh.
Shortly after the creation of Pakistan in 1947, the Pakistan Football Federation (PFF) was created, and Muhammad Ali Jinnah became its first Patron-in-Chief.
Shortly after the creation of Pakistan in 1947, the Pakistan Football Federation was created, and Muhammad Ali Jinnah became its first Patron-in-Chief.
Shortly after the creation of Pakistan in 1947, the Pakistan Football Federation was created, and the nation's founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah became its first Patron-in-Chief.
Shujauddin Malik won a gold medal at the 2006 Commonwealth Games, followed by Nooh Dastgir Butt, who broke Commonwealth Games records as he won the gold medal at the 2022 Commonwealth Games.
Siddhārtha shown as a bejewelled prince (before Siddhārtha renounces palace life) is a common motif.
Significant excavation has since been conducted at the site of the city, which was designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1980, the first site in South Asia to be so designated.
Significant populations of Sikhs inhabited the largest cities in the Punjab such as Lahore, Rawalpindi and Lyallpur.
Significant use of rectilinear layouts are made within the walled enclosures.
Signs of trouble slowly began in the cinema industry as VCRs and piracy became an issue.
Sikh architecture is a style of architecture that was developed under Sikh Empire during 18th and 19th century in the Punjab region.
Sikh art, including Sikh painting, is mostly derived from Punjab's art traditions.
Sikhism is a minority religion in Pakistan with a population of around 16,000 Sikhs, accounting for 0.01% of the national population.
Sikhism originated from what is now Punjab, Pakistan in the 15th century.
Sikhs have been victims of targeted assassinations and forced conversions in the tribal areas and Peshawar on the hand of Pakistani Taliban.
Sikhs have mainly kept a low profile within the monolithic Muslim population of Pakistan.
Sima' (to listen to Qawwali) is permissible if a few conditions are met.
Similar claims have also been made at other older sites with Areca sp.
Similar dishes are prepared in many other countries, often with local variations, and often brought there by South Asian diaspora populations.
Similar pastries are called sambusak in Arabic from Persian; medieval Arabic recipe books sometimes spell it sambusaj, which are all borrowed from Persian sanbosag.
Similar shift to English is found in the smaller Hong Kong Sindhi community.
Similar snacks and variants of samosas are found in many other countries.
Similarly, Uch Sharif has been the centre of Qadiriyya Sufi order.
Similarly, the Urdu spoken in India can also be distinguished into many dialects such as the Standard Urdu of Lucknow and Delhi, as well as the Dakhni (Deccan) of South India.
Similarly, the number of seats in Provincial Assembly of Sindh and Punjab were increased from 100 to 159 and 240 to 363 respectively, but the non-Muslim reserved seats were not increased.
Since 1952, the PCB has been affiliated with ICC, the international governing body for world cricket.
Since 1960s Pakistan had periodicals called digests.
Since 1982, all officials working in the secretariat are required to wear the national dress.
Since 1994, the water flow has decreased as Punjab has been allocated a higher share of the water.
Since 2008 thousands of Shia have been killed by Sunni extremists according to Human Rights Watch (HRW) and violent clashes between the two sects are common.
Since 2011 from the digital scene two films have stood out with box office success as highest grossing Pakistani films; Waar followed by Main Hoon Shahid Afridi.
Since 2011, the Google Pakistan homepage has featured special doodles designed with Pakistani symbols to mark Pakistan's Independence Day.
Since 2024, the clubs get a place for the AFC Challenge League.
Since Pakistan came into being, its fashion has evolved in different phases and developed a unique identity.
Since Saladin and Gokburi were both Sufis the festival became increasingly popular among Sufi devotees which remains so till this day.
Since inception of the Pakistan Premier League in 2004, four clubs have won the title: Khan Research Laboratories (5), WAPDA (4), Pakistan Army (2) and K-Electric (1).
Since independence in 1947, relations between Pakistan's minorities and the Muslim majority have remained fairly and politically stable.
Since independence, Pakistan's sports system has developed along multiple overlapping models rather than a single club-based pyramid.
Since it is purely hand embroidered, Balochi Duch is expensive and it takes months to complete a single Balochi suit.
Since losing its main patrons among the royalty in Indian princely states, dhrupad risked becoming extinct in the first half of the twentieth century.
Since murals could be seen by all walks of society, the things depicted in them were commonly understood subjects that required no specialized knowledge.
Since partition, the four tribes have lived in harmony with all religious communities including Muslims.
Since the 1940s, Sindhi poetry has incorporated broader influences, including the sonnet and blank verse.
Since the 1940s, dams, barrages and irrigation works have been constructed on the river Indus.
Since the 1940s, the delta has received less water as a result of large-scale irrigation works capturing large proportions of the Indus' flow before it reaches the delta.
Since the 1990s, betel chewing has been actively discouraged by successive governments, from the State Law and Order Restoration Council (SLORC) onward, on the grounds of health and tidiness.
Since the Taliban recaptured Afghanistan in 2021, they have often detained individuals wearing the pakol hat, after accusing them of being resistance fighters.
Since the early 18th century, the monarchs of Afghanistan have been ethnic Pashtuns (except for Habibullāh Kalakāni in 1929).
Since the flower 'Chambaili' (lily flower) is the national flower of Pakistan, the film-makers' intentions were to encourage patriotism and nationalism in Pakistan.
Since the founding of Pakistan in 1947, several of these districts have been subdivided, some multiple times.
Since the introduction of these vibrant TV channels, many major corruption cases and scams have been unveiled by journalists.
Since the late 1890s it has been also adopted by several communities of Afghanistan such as Tajiks, Pashayi٫ Pashtuns and Nuristanis.
Since the octave location is not fixed, it is also possible to use provenances in mid-register (such as mandra-madhya or madhya-taar) for certain ragas.
Since the partition of India in 1947, a third standard has arisen in the Pakistani city of Karachi.
Since the terrorist attacks, no foreign cricket teams toured Pakistan until 2015 when Zimbabwe toured for an away series.
Since the transfer of power took place on the midnight of 14 and 15 August, the Indian Independence Act 1947 recognized 15 August as the birthday of both Pakistan and India.
Since then its quest to promote the art of puppetry, at home and in remote/ far flung areas of Pakistan, is in progress.
Since then, the only Test side to visit Pakistan has been Zimbabwe, when they toured during May 2015.
Sind is the country which is nearer the domains of the Moslims, India is farther from them.
Sindh has been shaped by the largely desert region, the natural resources it has available, and continuous foreign influence.
Sindhi (سنڌي‎) is an Indo-Aryan language spoken as a first language by almost 14.31% of Pakistanis, mostly in the Sindh province of Pakistan.
Sindhi (سِنڌِي‎, Sindhī, [sɪndʱiː])[d] is an Indo-Aryan language belonging to the Indo-Iranian branch of the Indo-European language family.
Sindhi Ajrak, along with Sindhi topi, is bestowed upon the guests as an honour.
Sindhi Hindus are the biggest groups of Hindus in Pakistan and majority of the Hindus, resides in the Sindh province.
Sindhi adopted a variant of the Persian alphabet as well, in the 19th century.
Sindhi cuisine is typically not spicy, focusing on aromatic and balanced flavors.
Sindhi cuisine refers to the traditional culinary practices of the Sindhi people from the Sindh province of Pakistan.
Sindhi culture, history and heritage are highlighted at the events.
Sindhi has 46 consonant phonemes and 10 vowels.
Sindhi has a number of dialects and an established standard form, referred to as Standard Sindhi, which is based on the dialect of Hyderabad and surrounding areas of central Sindh.
Sindhi has a relatively large inventory of both consonants and vowels compared to other Indo-Aryan languages.
Sindhi has many dialects, and forms a dialect continuum at some places with neighboring languages such as Punjabi to the north and Gujarati to the south, but not with Marwari to the east.
Sindhi is one of the major oldest languages of the Indus Valley, having a peculiar literary colour both in poetry and prose.
Sindhi is taught in all provincial private schools that follow the Matric system and not the ones that follow the Cambridge system.
Sindhi is the official language of the Pakistani province of Sindh and one of the scheduled languages of India, where it does not have any state-level status.
Sindhi is written in the Sindhi alphabet of the Perso-Arabic script, the sole official script for the language in Pakistan; while in India, both the Perso-Arabic and Devanagari scripts are used.
Sindhi language is ancient and rich in literature.
Sindhi literature is very rich and is one of the world's oldest literatures.
Sindhi music has its own unique quality.
Sindhi music is traditionally performed in two primary styles: bait and waee.
Sindhi poetry contains two main original forms of verse, such as bait and Waei.
Sindhi poetry is very rich in thought and contain a variety of genres, like other developed languages.
Sindhi was the first Indo-Aryan language to be in close contact with Arabic and Persian following the Umayyad conquest of Sindh in 712 CE.
Sindhis are predominantly Muslim, but have a minority Hindu population, making up the largest Hindu minority population in Pakistan.
Sindhis celebrate Sindh Cultural Day worldwide every year on the first Sunday of December.
Singara filled with cauliflower mixture is a popular variation.
Singaras may be eaten as a tea-time snack.
Singers like Ustad Barkat Ali and many other singers in the past used to practice it, but the lack of historical records make many names anonymous.
Singing and dancing form an intrinsic part of the celebrations.
Single-domed mosques include the Singar Mosque, and the Shankarpasha Shahi Masjid.
Singularly, the innumerable Chaukhandi tombs are of eastern influence.
Sir Creek), fishermen often don't know when they've crossed the border.
Sir John Marshall identified a resemblance to the Hindu god, Shiva.
Sir Mortimer Wheeler was especially fascinated with this artifact, which he believed to be at least 4,500 years old.
Sir Syed also considered Urdu "a common legacy of Hindus and Muslims", and supported the use of Urdu through his writings.
Site conservation work resumed in April 1997, using funds made available by the UNESCO.
Situated on the eastern shore of the Indus River—the pivotal junction of the Indian subcontinent and Central Asia—it was possibly founded around 1000 BCE.
Six Pakistani policemen escorting the team and two civilians were killed while seven Sri Lankan players and an assistant coach were injured.
Six members of the joint committee were elected to the Minorities Committee of the Constituent Assembly.
Six teams play in the Pakistan first division.
Skipper Mohammad Hafeez scored 42 runs and all the other batsmen not going well.
Skyscrapers built in the international style are becoming more prevalent in the cities.
Small, compact pattis may have no further subdivisions.
Smaller minority Muslim populations in Pakistan include Quranists, nondenominational Muslims.
Smokers who want to quit would also use betel nut to wean themselves off tobacco.
Snooker is one of the rising sports in Pakistan, and it has been taken up by many people.
So vulnerable was the film industry to the changing political landscape that in 1976, an angry mob set fire to a cinema in Quetta just before the release of the first Balochi film, Hammal O Mahganj.
Social scientist Nasim Ahmad Jawed conducted a survey in 1969 in pre-divided Pakistan on the type of national identity that was used by educated professional people.
Sohan halwa is a traditional speciality of southern Punjab, particularly Multan.
Some Christians in Punjab and Sindh had been quite active after 1945 in their support for Muhammad Ali Jinnah's Muslim League.
Some Christians were therefore murdered for refusing to pick up garbage.
Some Hindus in Pakistan feel that they are treated as second-class citizens and many have continued to migrate to India.
Some Indian Muslim schools (Madrasa) teach Urdu as a first language and have their own syllabi and exams.
Some National TV Channels are "Pay Cable".
Some Pakistani Urdu speakers have incorporated Hindi vocabulary into their speech as a result of exposure to Indian entertainment.
Some Punjabi Muslims participate in the traditional, seasonal festivals of the Punjab region: Baisakhi, Basant and to a minor scale Lohri, but this is controversial.
Some accounts suggest that later it was taken care by Azam Shah, son of aurangzeb.
Some anatomically detailed figurines in terracotta, bronze, and steatite have been found at excavation sites, the former probably mostly toys.
Some ancient Hindu temples in Pakistan draw devotees from across faiths including Muslims.
Some buildings from his reign take forms that had been rare or unknown in Islamic buildings.
Some claim he committed suicide while the media attributed his death to his disheartened view in the wake of Pakistani cinema's collapse.
Some commercial recipes for biryani include aromatic essences such as mitha attar, kewra and rose water.
Some denominations of Islam do not approve of the commemoration of Muhammad's birthday, as they claim that there is no evidence from the Prophet and his companions that supports this day.
Some dishes contain liberal amounts of oil, contributing to a richer, fuller mouthfeel and flavour.
Some divergence of transliteration may be noted in the third consonant in the word.
Some educated urban women no longer wear the burqa, while some of them wear Hijab as an alternative.
Some elements, such as projecting balconies, had parallels in Islamic architecture elsewhere but their specific Mughal forms were of local inspiration.
Some examples for Portuguese words borrowed into Urdu are chabi ("chave": key), girja ("igreja": church), kamra ("cámara": room), qamīz ("camisa": shirt).
Some examples include the Taj Mahal at Agra, the tomb of his wife Mumtaz Mahal, under the chief architect Ustad Ahmad Lahori.
Some expatriate Muslim communities follow the dates as determined for the nearest Islamic country to their country of residence, while others follow the local dates of their home country.
Some have received high civilian and military awards.
Some households simply use a kitchen worktop as a sort of pastry board, but round flat-topped "boards" made of wood, stone, or stainless steel are available specifically for rolling out chapatis.
Some imams believe that listening to the sermon at Eid is optional.
Some kameez styles have side seams (known as the chaak), left open below the waist-line, giving the wearer greater freedom of movement.
Some letters that are distinguished in Arabic or Persian are homophones in Sindhi.
Some linguists have argued that Pashto is descended from Avestan or a variety very similar to it, while others have attempted to place it closer to Bactrian.
Some more examples of the major texts that also originated in Kashmir are the Vigyan Bharaiv Tantra, Yoga Sutras, Sapndi Karkika Tantra Loka and Para-Trisika-Vivarana.
Some nihari outlets in Old Delhi claim to have kept an unbroken cycle of taar going for more than a century.
Some notable ghazals of those prominent writers have been sung by Bollywood playback singer Manhar Udhas.
Some of his amazing ghazals were sung by famous artists like Lata Mangeshkar and Asha Bhosale.
Some of the architectures Babur created in the present-day India includes Aram Bagh in Agra, Lotus Garden in Dholpur and more.
Some of the important buildings in the fort are Jahangiri Mahal built for Jahangir and his family, the Moti Masjid, and Mena Bazaars.
Some of the important languages in this family are dialect continuums.
Some of the most prominent copperworks recovered from the site are the copper tablets which have examples of the untranslated Indus script and iconography.
Some of the most valuable things traded were carnelian and lapis lazuli.
Some of the reasons for this decline was the administration’s lack of attention to football and the departmental system running in Pakistan, which was abolished in other countries after the 1960s.
Some of the seals were used to stamp clay on trade goods.
Some of the typical features include pools, fountains and canals inside the gardens.
Some of the widely consumed breads are bilili (walnut bread), jã'u, (walnut bread), and kurau (flour kindled in crushed grape juice).
Some of these crafts are still practised in the subcontinent today.
Some of these shrines, sights and symbols have become a places of Pilgrimage for Pakistani ultra-nationalism and militarism, as well as for obviously religious purposes.
Some other notable players from Pakistan include Hashim Khan, Torsam Khan, Mobillah Khan, and Qamar Zaman.
Some parents allow their children to consume meetha on special occasions because it is tobacco-free.
Some people perform a prayer and go around the fire.
Some resist the label, citing historical Indian imperialism and cultural hegemony.
Some sites that once existed as gurdwaras have since been abandoned, lost or destroyed.
Some structures are thought to have been granaries.
Some temples were reopened and renovated in a public-private partnership like the Darya Lal Mandir in Karachi.
Some traditional and conservative Muslims criticised the design at first for its unconventional design and lack of a traditional dome structure.
Some vegetable dishes, such as aloo paratha and channa puri, are also consumed for breakfast.
Some versions of the Punjabi suthan tighten from the knees down to the ankles (a remnant of the svasthana).
Some were born in secular families while others in religious ones.
Some who are from a non-Urdu background now can read and write only Urdu.
Some words also survive in dialects like ناوې پلاز 'the bride-room'.
Sometimes Punjabi is recorded in the Devanagari script in India, albeit rarely.
Sometimes archaeology and anthropology are taught in textbooks of social studies.
Sometimes they are taken by powerful landlords as payment for outstanding debts by their farmhand parents, and the authorities often look the other way.
Sometimes, Dogri and Kangri are grouped into this category.
Somewhat like American soul music, but with melancholy instead of funk, most ghazals can be viewed in a spiritual context, with the Beloved being a metaphor for God or the poet's spiritual master.
Soon after this, Jehan Mubarak top-edged a delivery by Abdul Razzaq which went high in the air and was caught by Shahzaib Hasan, leaving Sri Lanka at 2 for 2.
Soon after, in 1848, Governor George Clerk established Sindhi as the official language in the province, removing the literary dominance of Persian.
South Asian diaspora populations have held their own festivals, for example by the North American Indian Muslim Association in North America.
South Asian truck art has expanded beyond vehicles into many modern mediums.
Special Sweets and biscuits, including Baklava and several kinds of "ka'ak", marzipan, cookies are made or bought to give to friends and relatives on the day.
Special dishes like ketupat, rendang, lemang (a type of glutinous rice cooked in bamboo) and Malay delicacies such as various kuih-muih are served during this day.
Special education teachers also reported higher levels of life satisfaction.
Special features of the event are regularly carried out in the newspapers and aired on televisions.
Special foods are prepared and shared with family and visitors, while children receive gifts.
Specifically that of several individuals found in a burial pit in the Duyong Cave site of Palawan island dated to around 4,630±250 BP.
Spoken in Upper Sindh as well as the southern Panjab, it is sometimes considered a dialect of either Sindhi or of Panjabi due to a high degree of mutual intelligibility.
Sport in Pakistan is a significant part of Pakistani culture.
Sportsmen and officials from East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) and all the integrated Provincial units of West Pakistan took part in these games.
Squash is a popular sport that has a large following in Pakistan, with Pakistan dominating the sport for some time.
Squash is one of the most popular sports in Pakistan.
Sri Lanka Cricket said that players have a "contractual obligation" to play the match in Lahore, but it was unlikely to issue penalties to any player who chose not to visit Pakistan.
Sri Lanka Cricket said that they were "very positive" with regards to the progress of playing Test cricket in Pakistan.
Sri Lanka finished on 138/6 from 20 overs.
Sri Lanka scored 139/ with Mahela Jayawardena took the gear.
Sri Lanka were to play three match ODI series at National Stadium, starting from 27 September.
Srirangapatna and Lucknow have examples of later Indo-Mughal architecture.
Standard Punjabi (sometimes referred to as Majhi) is the standard form of Punjabi used commonly in education and news broadcasting, and is based on the Majhi dialect.
Standard Urdu is often compared with Standard Hindi.
Staple foods like barley, wheat, and millet form the foundation of dishes such as chapshuro and thukpa, hearty soups that provide warmth in the cold climate.
Star India began airing of Mera Naam Yousuf Hai in 2015 on their channel Star Plus and thus becoming the channel's first ever Pakistani drama.
Starting in Islamabad and expanding to Karachi and Lahore, STN covered the entire country by the mid-1990s.
Statements and questions with a question word are characterized by falling intonation at the end of the sentence.
Statistics regarding Pakistan's sects and sub-sects have been called "tenuous", but the Deobandi movement holds significant influence, particularly through its extensive network of madrasas.
Steatite seals have images of animals, people (perhaps gods), and other types of inscriptions, including the yet un-deciphered writing system of the Indus Valley Civilisation.
Stews prepared in a karahi include chicken, beef, mutton, goat and lamb.
Stews prepared with paneer or tofu are becoming increasingly popular amongst vegetarians.
Stone had to be imported to most of Bengal, whereas clay for bricks is plentiful.
Stonework was of high quality and marks one of the most sophisticated aspects of Mughal decoration.
Strabo, who lived between 64 BC and 24 CE, explains that the tribes inhabiting the lands west of the Indus River were part of Ariana.
Stream), thus meaning the 'abode of joy' or the 'abode of streams', respectively.
Streets, mosques, and homes are adorned with green decorations and lights, further enhancing the festive mood.
Stress in Brahui follows a quantity-based pattern, occurring either on the first long vowel or diphthong, or on the first syllable if all vowels are short.
Stress normally falls on the first syllable of a word.
Strings gained acclaim following the release of their second album in 1992, eventually selling over 25 million albums worldwide.
Structures from the 17th century at the Leilo Sheikh part of the cemetery feature large tombs that resemble Jain temples from afar, with prominent influence from the nearby region of Gujarat.
Stucco, as well as stone, were widely used by sculptors in Gandhara for the decoration of monastic and cult buildings.
Students can also attend a university for Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Science (BSc), Bachelor of Commerce (BCom) or Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) degree courses.
Students need more opportunities to deepen their knowledge of how to attend to economic and social needs.
Students pursuing MPhil or PhD degrees must choose a specific field and a university that is doing research work in that field.
Students then enter an intermediate college and complete years 11 and 12.
Studies of tooth enamel from individuals buried at Harappa suggest that some residents had migrated to the city from beyond the Indus Valley.
Study terminated when the teacher was satisfied with the student's level of achievement.
Subsequent Indo-Aryanist linguists have confirmed the reality of this dialect cluster, even while rejecting the name "Southern Lahnda" along with the entity "Lahnda" itself.
Subsequent examinations of the skeletons by Kenneth Kennedy in 1994 showed that the marks on the skulls were caused by erosion, and not by violence.
Subsequent material culture was typically characterised by temporary occupation, "the campsites of a population which was nomadic and mainly pastoralist" and which used "crude handmade pottery".
Subsequent to Alexander's death, Chanakya and Chandragupta allied with Trigarta king Parvataka to conquer the Nanda Empire.
Subsequently, Alexander traversed the River Guraeus in the contemporary Dir District, engaging with the Asvakas, as chronicled in Sanskrit literature.
Such as the variety used on Google Translate, Standard Punjabi is also often used in official online services that employ Punjabi.
Such classical vocabulary is being reintroduced to modern Pashto.
Such eateries have rapidly expanded in other cities as well.
Such has been the impact of tape ball that in recent years some companies have introduced tennis balls designed to act like cricket balls.
Such long-distance sea trade became feasible with the development of plank-built watercraft, equipped with a single central mast supporting a sail of woven rushes or cloth.
Such poems have been written in many languages, including Arabic, Kurdish and Turkish.
Such publishers have introduced new orthographic features into Devanagari for the purpose of representing the Perso-Arabic etymology of Urdu words.
Such roofs feature even more strongly in later Bengal Hindu temple architecture, with types such as the do-chala, Jor-bangla Style, and char-chala.
Such symbols have included the star and crescent, national monuments and colours, historic and artistic representations, geographic landscapes and other national symbols.
Sufi music and Qawali, commonly practiced in Pakistani Punjab; are other important genres in the Punjab region.
Sufi music is performed at shrines, and other simple music is performed at studios and gatherings.
Sufi poetry has a strong tradition in Pakistan and the poetry of popular Sufi poets is often recited and sung.
Sufis whose shrines receive much national attention are Data Ganj Baksh (Ali Hajweri) in Lahore (ca.
Sufism is a vast term and many Sufi orders exist within Pakistan where the philosophy has a strong tradition.
Sufism, a mystical Islamic tradition, promoted by Fariduddin Ganjshakar in Pakpatan, has a long history and a large popular following in Pakistan.
Sufism, known as Tasawwuf in the Arabic-speaking world, is a form of Islamic mysticism that emphasizes introspection and spiritual closeness with God.
Sugarcane products such as jaggery and gajak are central to Lohri celebrations, as are nuts which are harvested in January.
Suggested contributory causes for the localisation of the IVC include changes in the course of the river, and climate change that is also signalled for the neighbouring areas of the Middle East.
Sunehri Mosque is a late Mughal-era mosque in the Walled City of Lahore, Pakistan.
Sunehri Mosque was built in 1753 when the empire was in decline, during the reign of Muhammad Shah.
Suresh Bhat popularized ghazals in the Marathi language.
Suri gave "Laghu Shanti Stava," stating that reciting it would alleviate the plague.
Surveys and documentation of traditional culture is central to the objectives of the institute.
Surviving evidences indicate a sophisticated civilization.
Sushruta Samhita records meat being cooked in an oven (kandu) after marinating it in spices like black mustard (rai) powder and fragrant spices.
Sweet samosas are also sold in the cities of Pakistan including Peshawar; these sweet samosas contain no filling and are dipped in thick sugar syrup.
Sweetheart with black eyes) and 'bagh' (lit.
Sweetmeats are consumed on various festive occasions in Pakistan.
Syed Ahmed Khan, the grandson of the Mughal Vizier, Dabir-ud-Daula, believed that Muslims and Hindus belonged to two separate nations.
Syed's first and foremost objective was to acquaint the British with the Indian mind; his next goal was to open the minds of his countrymen to European literature, science and technology.
Systematic excavations began in Mohenjo-daro in 1924–25 with that of K. N. Dikshit, continuing with those of H. Hargreaves (1925–1926), and Ernest J. H. Mackay (1927–1931).
TV broadcasting and FM radio licenses were issued to private media outlets.
TVET classes also offer money management lessons, personal and family health practices, Electronical and Electronics and healthcare information.
Tabloids like these got their first controversial covers with the release of Neela Parbat on 3 January 1969, which became Pakistan's first feature-film with an adults-only tag.
Taekwondo was introduced in Pakistan by Korean Consulate in Karachi in 1962.
Tagged or tackled players are temporarily out but can re-enter when their team scores.
Tahiri, which is a vegetarian form of biryani, is also popular.
Taimur Hussain has been Pakistan's most successful golfer, as he won the 1998 Myanmar Open, becoming the first Pakistani to win on the Asian Tour.
Taimur Khan remarks: "the dominant Urdu language squeezes and denies any space for Pashto language in the official and formal capacity.
Taj al-Din al-Fakihani (d. 1331), an Egyptian Maliki, considered Mawlid to be a blameworthy innovation that was either makruh (not encouraged) or haram (forbidden).
Takshashila and Pushkalavati remained prominent cities in Gandhāra during the Mahajanapadas.
Takshashila was closely associated with Jainism.
Talha was brought into the limelight at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, where he finished fifth in the men's 67 kg event.
Talár is the first daily newspaper in the Brahui language.
Tamakh paan, a betel leaf blended with tobacco and spices.
Tappa is a form of Indian semi-classical vocal music whose specialty is its rolling pace based on fast, subtle, knotty construction.
Taungoo in Lower Burma is where the best areca palms are grown indicated by the popular expression "like a betel lover taken to Taungoo".
Tavas were traditionally made of unglazed earthenware, but are now typically made from metal.
Taxila (ancient city) was designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1980 and is located in the town of Taxila.
Taxila Junction is served by the Karachi–Peshawar Railway Line, and is the southern terminus of the Khunjerab Railway, which connects Taxila to the Havelian railway station.
Taxila Museum has one of the most significant and comprehensive collections of stone Buddhist sculpture from the first to the seventh centuries in Pakistan (known as Gandharan art.
Taxila had great influence on Hindu culture and the Sanskrit language.
Taxila had one of the earliest universities and centres of higher education in the world, which was established during the late Vedic period in 6th century BCE.
Taxila is home to Heavy Industries Taxila, a major Pakistani defence, military contractor, engineering conglomerate.
Taxila is home to many secondary educational institutes including CIIT Wah Campus, and HITEC University.
Taxila is located 32 km (20 mi) north-west of the Pakistani capital Islamabad.
Taxila is one of northern Pakistan's most important tourist destinations and is home to the Taxila Museum which holds a large number of artifacts from Taxila's excavations.
Taxila is served by the Taxila Cantonment Junction railway station.
Taxila thus changed hands many times over the centuries, with many empires vying for its control.
Taxila which was desolate and half-ruined was visited by him in 630 CE, and found most of its sangharamas still ruined and desolate.
Taxila's archaeological sites lie near modern Taxila about 35 km (22 mi) northwest of the city of Rawalpindi.
Taxila's university remained in existence during the travels of Chinese pilgrim Faxian, who visited Taxila around 400 CE.
Taxila, however, is most famous for ruins of several settlements, the earliest dating from around 1000 BCE.
Te Hazuri Bagh garden and its central baradari were constructed during Sikh rule to celebrate the Maharaja's capture of the Koh-i-Noor diamond.
Teacher education has an impact on the general education of the country.
Teacher education reform is crucial in improving education in Pakistan.
Teacher preparation programs need funding and consistency to produce quality, effective teachers.
Teacher reform needs to continue by establishing resources and investments.
Teacher training programs at universities lack qualified professionals.
Teacher-wise males dominate teaching profession by 2:1 with females unable to teach or being barred.
Teachers are the focal point of establishing progressive education.
Team India did not participate in this tournament.
Teams are ranked by total points, then goal difference and then goals scored.
Technical and Vocational Education Training (TVET) raised attention because education helps prepare students for future employment.
Technically, the PFF can nominate any team to represent them in Asia; however, only the team that finished top of their highest league are sent.
Teg Ali Teg introduced ghazals in Bhojpuri, his ghazals collection Badmash Darpan was published in 1895.
Teleschool instructional videos are in Urdu and English, Pakistan's official languages and the languages used for the country's national curriculum.
Teleschool is programmed with lessons for kindergarten through high school.
Television in Pakistan started in 1964 and the first live transmission of Pakistan Television began on 26 November 1964, in Lahore.
Television is the main source of news and information for people in Pakistan's towns, cities and large areas of the countryside.
Ten Pakistani journalists will travel to the United States and ten U.S. journalists will travel to Pakistan.
Tennis events are very rare in Pakistan and there is hardly an international tennis event, apart from ATP tournaments.
Tennis is a very popular sport and Pakistanis compete in various international events.
Tent pegging is a popular sport in Pakistan.
Terracotta female figurines were found (c. 2800–2600 BCE) which had red colour applied to the "manga" (line of partition of the hair).
Thaats may consist of up to seven scale degrees, or swara.
Tharparkar district has the highest population of Hindus in terms of absolute terms.
Tharparkar is said to have most Hindus in absolute numbers at 811,507.
That is to say, education sector should be treated as a special sector by immunizing budgetary allocations for it from fiscal stresses and political and economic instabilities.
That lower level pyramid is treated as a solid body while four minarets with their apex complete the imaginary cube of Kaaba.
That series was cut short, following a 2009 attack on the Sri Lanka national cricket team.
That this Persian candy [ode], that to Bengal goeth.
That was considered to be worst performance against top side.
That year the day of independence coincided with 27 Ramadan of the Islamic calendar, the eve of which, one of the five nights on which Laylat al-Qadr may occur, is regarded as sacred by Muslims.
The "centralised"[b] vowels /ɪ ʊ ə/ tend to be shorter than the "peripheral" vowels /i ɛ a o u/.
The "old" tune repertory includes movable tunes that can be adapted to multiple poems as well as "special" (makhsūs, khās) settings of poems, which are identified by their text.
The "palatal" /ʄ/ is denti-alveolar and laminal, articulated further forward than most other palatals.
The "retroflex" /ᶑ/ is articulated with the tip or the underside of the tongue, further forward in the mouth than the plain retroflex stops.
The "trend towards Persianisation" started in the 18th century by the Delhi school of Urdu poets, though other writers, such as Meeraji, wrote in a Sanskritised form of the language.
The 'Early Persian poetry' period spanned approximately one century, from the Ghaznavid era (which lasted until 1187) till a little after the Mongol Invasion.
The /ɲ/ phoneme, which is more common than /ŋ/, is written as نی or نج depending on its phonetic preservation, e.g.
The 135,000 acres of temple land is now controlled by the Evacuee Trust Property Board.
The 13th century Chishti Sufi poet Hasan Sijzi is regarded as the originator of the Indo-Persian ghazal.
The 1954 film Sassi, produced by Eveready Pictures, reached golden jubilee status, and the 1959 film Umar Marvi was the first Pakistani film made in Sindhi.
The 1960s is often called the golden era of Pakistani cinema, and it was then that the first generation of Pakistani cinema's legends were introduced.
The 1973 Constitution also created certain institutions such as the Shariat Court and the Council of Islamic Ideology to channel the interpretation and application of Islam.
The 1980s saw the brother-sister duo Nazia and Zoheb Hassan.
The 1986 Austral-Asia Cup, played in Sharjah in UAE, saw a last-ball victory for Pakistan against their arch-rivals India, with Javed Miandad emerging as a national hero.
The 1990s also saw the rise of rock and fusion bands such as Junoon, Aaroh, and Noori, which became household names and enjoyed immense popularity.
The 1990s saw the rise of other notable bands, including Junoon, Aaroh, and Noori.
The 1992 Cricket World Cup in Australia and New Zealand marked Pakistan's first World Cup victory.
The 1st Sunday of December was Advised and fixed by Dr. Sarang Ansari, a Sindhi poet also known as Sarang Bhittai.
The 20-year funding plan provided $10 million to protect the site and standing structures from flooding.
The 2007 event was held in January and had an increased prize money purse of $330,000 US.
The 2010 Pakistan floods were considered "good news" for the ecosystem of the river delta as they brought an excess of much needed fresh water.
The 2010 World T20 was held in West Indies, where Pakistan was able to reach for the semi-final stage.
The 2010 floods displaced nearly 1 million people in southern Sindh, including those living in the delta.
The 2012 edition of World T20 was held in Sri Lanka, where Pakistan grouped in Group D with New Zealand, and Bangladesh.
The 2014 ICC World T20 was held by Bangladesh.
The 2014 season was played in the UAE due to the 2014 Indian general election and parts of both the 2020 and 2021 season were played in the country due to the widespread outbreak of COVID-19 in India.
The 2017 census recorded 4,444,870 Hindus (includes 849,614 Scheduled Caste Hindus) which constituting 2.14% of the total population of Pakistan.
The 2017 census showed an increasing share in Hinduism, mainly caused by a higher birth rate among the impoverished Hindus of Sindh province.
The 2018–19 season was organised by two different federations, and was reportedly not recognised by FIFA and AFC.
The 2020 Pakistan Super League events was hosted entirely by Pakistan.
The 2022 edition of Ethnologue lists 80 established languages in Pakistan.
The 80 cells built into the walls surrounding its vast courtyard were demolished by the British after the Indian Rebellion of 1857, so as to prevent them from being used for anti-British activities.
The AICIC also stated that Indian Christians would not tolerate any discrimination based on race or skin colour.
The Ajrakh blocks were designed taking inspiration from the Muslim architectural elements that form the 'Mizan' - balance and order.
The Akedah is referred to in the Quran in its 37th surah, As-Saaffat.
The Alchons apparently undertook the mass destruction of Buddhist monasteries and stupas at Taxila, a high center of learning, which never recovered from the destruction.
The Alchons undertook the mass destruction of Buddhist monasteries and stupas at Taxila, a high centre of learning, which never recovered from the destruction.
The All India Muslim League, who disagreed with the idea of single state, stressed the idea of a separate Pakistan as an alternative.
The Alpine Club of Pakistan (ACP) founded in 1974, is the national mountaineering and climbing federation.
The Amateur Kabaddi Federation of Bangladesh was formed in 1973.
The Amb Temples (Urdu: امب مندر) are part of a Hindu temple complex located at the western edge of the Salt Range in Pakistan's Punjab province.
The Andalusian jurist Abu 'Abd Allah al-Haffar (d. 1408) opposed Mawlid, noting that had the Sahaba celebrated it then its exact date would not be a matter of uncertainty.
The Angel Gabriel (Jibreel) proclaimed, "O Ibrahim, you have fulfilled the revelations," and a ram from heaven was offered by Angel Gabriel to prophet Abraham to slaughter instead of his son.
The Angrakho and Pehrān/Pehriyān were also used to be embroidered with Sindhi bhart and mirrorwork.
The Antiquities Act of 1975, which prohibits the use of historical places to protect them from damage, was violated in the following month by hosting a dinner in the Diwan-i-Khas.
The Apracharajas were a historical dynasty situated in the region of Gandhara, extending from the governance of Menander II within the Indo-Greek Kingdom to the era of the early Kushans.
The Arabic and Modern Persian influence in the historical Punjab region began with the late first millennium Muslim conquests in the Indian subcontinent.
The Arabic word عيد (ʿīd) means 'festival', 'celebration', 'feast day', or 'holiday'.
The Arabic word غزل ġazal is pronounced [ˈɣazal].
The Arabs attracted and converted the Buddhist classes, but for the rural and non-mercantile parts, they promoted a more decentralized authority and appointed Brahmins for the task.
The Aravalli Range in northwestern India was particularly important.
The Army, Air Force and Navy feature prominently in independence day parades.
The Aspasians fiercely contested Alexander's forces, resulting in their eventual defeat.
The Associated Press of Pakistan has launched a Saraiki version of its site, as well.
The Athletics Federation of Pakistan (AFP) organises athletic tournaments in Pakistan.
The Ayurvedic healer Charaka also studied at Taxila.
The BBC terms the Pakistani media "among the most outspoken in South Asia".
The Badshahi Mosque in Lahore was built during the reign of Aurangzeb in 1673.
The Badshahi Mosque in Lahore, Pakistan, was commissioned by the sixth Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb.
The Bahawalpuri shalwar is very wide and baggy with many voluminous folds.
The Bahawalpuri shalwar is worn with the Bahawalpur style kameez, the Punjabi kurta or chola.
The Bahawalpuri shalwar originates from the Bahawalpur region of Punjab, Pakistan.
The Bahmani Sultanate in the Deccan broke away from the Tughlaqs in 1347, and ruled from Gulbarga, Karnataka and then Bidar until overrun by the Mughals in 1527.
The Baháʼí Faith in Pakistan was present when it was still under British colonial rule.
The Baháʼís in Pakistan have the right to hold public meetings, establish academic centers, teach their faith, and elect their administrative councils.
The Baloch are an Iranian ethnolinguistic group, and are principally found in the south of Balochistan province of Pakistan.
The Balochi Academy Sarbaz has designed a standard alphabet for Balochi.
The Balochi Duch from Makran District is one of the many forms of Balochi dresses and is famous all across Balochistan.
The Balochi Standard Alphabet, standardized by Balochi Academy Sarbaz, consists of 29 letters.
The Balochi vowel system has at least eight vowels: five long and three short.
The Beach kabaddi variant is played in two 15-minute halves by two teams of four players who are not allowed to wear shoes and is played on levelled ground of sand either on seas shore or river banks.
The Begum Shahi Mosque is an early 17th-century mosque situated in the Walled City of Lahore, Pakistan.
The Bengal Sultanate (1352–1576) normally used brick as the primary construction material of large buildings, as pre-Islamic buildings had done.
The Bengali sweet dish, Shemai (Vermicelli) are served with Roti or Paratha or Luchi as breakfast in Bangladesh.
The Bharata Natya Shastra is notable as an ancient encyclopedic treatise on the arts one which has influenced dance, music and literary traditions in India, originated in Kashmir.
The Bharata Natya Shastra, which is notable as an ancient encyclopedic treatise on the arts which has influenced dance, music and literary traditions in Indian culture, originated in Kashmir.
The Bhir Mound ruins at the site date from the 6th century BCE, and are adjacent to Hathial.
The Bill was effectively blocked by political parties like the Council of Islamic Ideology and Jamaat-e-Islami.
The Board governs a network of teams sponsored by corporations and banks, city associations and clubs including advertising, broadcasting rights and internet partners.
The Board has published more than 800 books on different science subjects, dictionaries and educational charts.
The Board was also asked to undertake a number of other tasks for the development of Urdu.
The Board was renamed as “Urdu Science Board” in 1984.
The Brahui, Brahvi or Brohi, are an ethnic group principally found in Balochistan, Pakistan.
The Brahuis are almost entirely Sunni Muslims.
The British Empire employed Urdu in its administration of North-Central and Northwestern India, while in the North-East of India, Bengali language was used as the language of administration.
The British plan to partition the Indian subcontinent into two dominions - India and Pakistan - was announced on 3 June 1947.
The British, like the Mughals, built elaborate buildings to project their power.
The British-era author Abdul Halim Sharar mentions that biryani has a stronger curried taste due to a greater amount of spices.
The Buddhist art of Gandhara was a synthesis of Hellenistic and Indian elements.
The Buddhist art of Gandhara, in particular Greco-Buddhist art, became extinct around this period.
The Buddhist chief offered his allegiance to Chach when the latter was on his way to Kirman in 631.
The Buddhist monk Xuanzang observed that Buddhism was already declining in the Sindh region when he visited in the 7th century.
The CEJ serves as a hub for the professional development, training and networking of Pakistani journalists and media professionals from all parts of the country.
The Cemetery H culture has the earliest evidence for cremation; a practice dominant in Hinduism today.
The Cemetery H culture may be the manifestation of the Late Harappan over a large area in the region of Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, and the Ochre Coloured Pottery culture its successor.
The Champaner-Pavagadh Archaeological Park, the 16th century capital of Gujarat Sultanate, documents the early Islamic and pre-Mughal city that has remained without any change.
The Chaukhandi Tombs near Karachi are similar in style.
The Chaukhandi style came to incorporate slabs of sandstone that were carefully carved by stonemasons into intricate and elaborate designs.
The Chitrali pakol is worn by the Chitral Scouts of Northern Pakistan.
The Christian and Ahmadi missionaries offer impoverished Hindus schools, health clinics etc.
The Christian community in Pakistan encounters significant challenges, discrimination, and persecution solely based on their religious identity.
The Christians in Pakistan have long been active in various fields of public service.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) reports over 4,000 members in 13 congregations throughout Pakistan.
The Constitution also states that all laws are to conform with the injunctions of Islam as laid down in the Quran and Sunnah.
The Constitution declared Pakistan an Islamic Republic and Islam as the state religion.
The Constitution limits the political rights of Pakistan's non-Muslims.
The Culture of Sindh (Sindhi: سنڌ جي ثقافت) has its roots in the Indus Valley civilization.
The Damascene Shafi'i scholar Abu Shama (d. 1268) (who was a teacher of Imam al-Nawawi (d. 676 A.H.)) also supports the celebration of the Mawlid.
The Dattilam is focused on Gandharva music and discusses scales (swara), defining a tonal framework called grama in terms of 22 micro-tonal intervals (shruti)comprising one octave.
The Deobandi movement is especially prominent in regions such as Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan, where it forms the majority among Sunni Muslims.
The Dhanmondi Shahi Eidgah is a listed archaeological site of the Department of Archaeology and has historical, architectural and heritage values.
The Diwan-i-Aam was built by Shah Jahan in 1628 in a prominent part of the fort immediately south of Jahangir's Quadrangle.
The Diwan-i-Aam was used as a hall for the emperors to hold an audience with commoners.
The Drigh Road and Korangi also have a small Tamil Hindu population.
The Dupatta is treated just as an accessory in current urban fashion.
The Early Harappan Ravi Phase, named after the nearby Ravi River, lasted from c. 3300 BCE until 2800 BCE.
The East India Company began their trade in colonial India in the 17th century, and the company rule started from 1757 when they won the Battle of Plassey.
The Egyptian historian Maqrizi (d. 1442) describes one such celebration held in 1122 as an occasion in which mainly scholars and religious establishments participated.
The Eid al-Fitr prayer and celebration in Taiwan draws much attention from local media.
The Eid prayer is followed by a khutbah (sermon).
The Eid prayer is followed by the khutbah and then a dua asking for God's forgiveness, mercy, peace and blessings for all living beings across the world.
The Eid prayer is performed by the congregation in an open area such as a field, community center, or mosque.
The Emperor had forbidden the construction of a dome over his tomb, and thus the roof is simple and free of any embellishments.
The English media is urban and elite-centric, is more liberal and professional compared to the Urdu media.
The English word samosa derives from the Hindustani word samosa (Urdu: سموسہ, Hindi: समोसा), traceable to the Middle Persian word sambōsag (سنبوسگ) 'triangular pastry'.
The Equestrian & Tent Pegging Federation of Pakistan, formed in 2014, is the highest governing body who organizes the sport in Pakistan.
The FIDE has awarded the International Master title to Shahzad Mirza and Mahmood Lodhi.
The Faisal Mosque in Islamabad, one of the largest mosques in the world, is one of the best examples of modern Islamic architecture.
The Faisal Mosque is described in the book The Kite Runner by Khalid Hosseini.
The Faisal Mosque[a] is the national mosque of Pakistan, located in Islamabad, the capital of the country.
The Federal Bureau of Statistics provisionally valued the deforestation sector at Rs.25,637 million in 2005, thus registering over 3% decline of forests in Pakistan since 2000.
The Federal Bureau of Statistics shows that once the country boasted at least 700 cinemas, this number has dwindled to less than 170 by 2005.
The Federation is affiliated with Pakistan Sports Board.
The Freedom Rally is a yearly off-road race that takes place during the Independence celebrations.
The Frere Hall, St. Patrick's Cathedral and Mereweather Clock Tower in Karachi, and neoclassical Montgomery Hall in Lahore are some examples.
The Gandhara kingdom of the northwest, and the legendary Gandhara people, are also a major part of Hindu literature such as the Ramayana and the Mahabharata.
The Gandhara satrapy, established 518 BCE with its capital at Pushkalavati (Charsadda).
The Gandhari people are a tribe mentioned in the Rigveda, the Atharvaveda, and later Vedic texts.
The Gandharva Veda is a Sanskrit scripture describing the theory of music and its applications in not just musical form and systems but also in physics, medicine and magic.
The Gandhāran Buddhist texts also date from this period.
The Gardens have 5 water cascades including the great marble cascade and Sawan Bhadoon.
The Gardens were nationalised in 1962 by General Ayub Khan because leading Arain Mian family members had opposed his imposition of martial law in Pakistan.
The Geo Super Football League of 2007, also ran as a parallel city-based league to Pakistan Premier League, held in Karachi and saw record crowds at Peoples Stadium.
The Ghaggar-Hakra system was rain-fed,[ag][ah] and water-supply depended on the monsoons.
The Ghazal genre is characterized by its romance, and its discourses on the various shades of love.
The Ghazal music genre is most popular in Afghanistan, Pakistan and India.
The Ghazal tradition is marked by the poetry's ambiguity and simultaneity of meaning.
The Goraknath Temple which was closed in the 1947 was reopened in 2011 after a court ruling which ordered the Evacuee Trust Property Board to open it.
The Governor-General was replaced with the President of Pakistan as ceremonial head of state.
The Greek-language transcription of Taxila became universally favoured over time, and both the Sanskrit and Pali names fell out of use.
The Gregorian date may vary between countries depending on the local visibility of the new moon.
The Gurmukhi script was also used to write Sindhi, mainly in India by Hindus.
The Haramsara, the royal seraglio in Fatehpur Sikri was an area where the royal women lived.
The Harappan Civilization has its earliest roots in cultures such as that of Mehrgarh, approximately 6000 BC.
The Harappan language is the unknown language (or languages) of the Indus Valley civilization.
The Harappan merchants also had procurement colonies in Mesopotamia as well, which served as trading centres.
The Harappan script is yet undeciphered, indeed it has not even been demonstrated to be a writing system, and therefore the language remains unknown.
The Harappans also made various toys and games, among them cubical dice (with one to six holes on the faces), which were found in sites like Mohenjo-daro.
The Harappans had traded with ancient Mesopotamia, especially Elam, among other areas.
The Harees was cooked as the Arab empire was extended to different parts of the world.
The Higher Education Commission established in 2002 is responsible for all universities and degree awarding institutes.
The Hindu Shahis are believed to belong to the Uḍi/Oḍi tribe, namely the people of Oddiyana in Gandhara.
The Holy Shiv Temple in Kohat has been converted into a government primary school.
The Human Rights Council of Pakistan has reported that cases of forced conversion to Islam are increasing.
The ICC Team of the Tournament had Sarfaraz Ahmed as captain, Fakhar Zaman, Junaid Khan and Hasan Ali from Pakistan.
The ICC later changed the result of the match to a draw, and subsequently reinstated the original result on 1 February 2009.
The IKF has also held one women's World Cup event.
The IKF men's competition has been previously contested in 2004, 2007 and 2016.
The IVC residents did not develop irrigation capabilities, relying mainly on the seasonal monsoons leading to summer floods.
The Imam then reads al-Fatihah, followed by another surah.
The Indian Act of 1935 provided the legal framework for Pakistan until 1956, when the state passed its own constitution.
The Indian Government has legislated Sindhi as a scheduled language in India, making it an option for education.
The Indian government is planning to issue Aadhaar cards and PAN cards to Pakistani Hindu refugees, and simplifying the process by which they can acquire Indian citizenship.
The Indian national team won every men's and women's kabaddi competition in the Asian Games from 2002 through 2014.
The Indian restaurateur Kris Dhillon writes that the dish originated in Persia and was brought to South Asia by the Mughals.
The Indian team toured Pakistan for a full series, consisting of three Tests and five ODIs, from March to April 2004.
The Indo-Greek king Menander I (reigned 155–130 BCE) drove the Greco-Bactrians out of Gandhara and beyond the Hindu Kush, becoming king shortly after his victory.
The Indo-Pakistani War of 1965 began with Pakistan sending Mujahideen into the Kashmir Valley to incite rebellion and dislocate local installations.
The Indo-Parthian Kingdom was ruled by the Gondopharid dynasty, named after its first ruler Gondophares.
The Indo-Saracenic style, a fusion of British and Indo-Islamic elements also developed.
The Indo-Scythians were descended from the Sakas (Scythians) who migrated from Central Asia into South Asia from the middle of the 2nd century BCE to the 1st century BCE.
The Indoor kabaddi variant is played in two 15-minute halves by two teams of five players and is a shorter variant of standard style kabaddi.
The Indus River Delta forms where the Indus River flows into the Arabian Sea, mostly in the southern Sindh province of Pakistan with a small portion in the Kutch Region of India.
The Indus Valley cities developed elaborate drainage and sewerage systems, described by archaeologists as well-planned and advanced compared with many contemporary societies.
The Indus Valley civilisation employed rulers made of ivory for measuring length circa 1500 BCE.
The Indus Valley civilisation may have had bullock carts identical to those seen throughout South Asia today, as well as boats.
The Indus Valley civilization was basically an urban culture sustained by surplus agricultural production and commerce, the latter including trade with Elam and Sumer in southern Mesopotamia.
The Indus Valley climate grew significantly cooler and drier from about 1800 BCE, linked to a general weakening of the monsoon at that time.
The Indus Valley is known to be one of the ancestral lands of cultivated wheat.
The Indus civilisation is named after the Indus River system in whose alluvial plains the early sites of the civilisation were identified and excavated.
The Indus or Sindhu River, which passes through the land, and the Arabian Sea (Which defines its borders) also supported the seafaring traditions among the local people.
The Indus river started to form some 50 million years ago.
The International Islamic University was housed under the main courtyard but now has relocated to a new campus.
The Iraqi Kurds tend to visit cemeteries to remember their lost ones one day before the festival.
The Irish went on to win the match, after Niall O'Brien scored 72 runs.
The Islamization of the national curriculum during the 1980s further embedded religious content in public education, shaping the broader educational landscape.
The Italian fashion company Dolce & Gabbana used truck art-inspired displays in a 2015 campaign.
The Jahangir Quadrangle is bordered on its northern edge by Jahangir's sleeping chambers, the Bari Khwabgah, which was largely reconstructed during the British era.
The Jahangiri Mahal has a courtyard surrounded by double-storeyed halls and rooms.
The Jaina community sent a Sravaka named Virchand to Nadol, who conveyed their suffering to Acharya Manadevasuri.
The Janamsakhis, stories on the life and legend of Guru Nanak (1469–1539), are early examples of Punjabi prose literature.
The January sugarcane harvest is celebrated in the Lohri festival.
The Jatakas mention non-Buddhist institutions and teachers in Taxila.
The Kabaddi World Cup is an outdoor international standard style kabaddi competition conducted by the IKF, contested by national teams.
The Kalash people practise a form of ancient Hinduism mixed with animism.
The Kalasha people practice a religion which is based on an older set of Ancient Hinduism, but which has some Vedic influence, alongside animism and shamanism.
The Kalhora ruled the region until 1783.
The Karachi School of Art, the first art institution in Karachi, was founded in 1964 by Rabia Zuberi.
The Karachi style has been called "disco art", with flashing bulbs, glass and mirrors.
The Karakoram Highway's southern terminus is in nearby Hasan Abdal, and connects Taxila to the Chinese border near the Hunza Valley.
The Kartik paan is considered by consumers to be the best and Ashad paan the worst.
The Kashmir Valley is noted for its bakery tradition.
The Kashmiri poet Agha Shahid Ali was a proponent of the form, both in English and in other languages; he edited a volume of "real Ghazals in English".
The Kayaking National Champions Mohammad Abubakar Durrani, Mohammad Shoaib Khilji, and Farhanullah Kakar belong to HDWSA and Pakistan Customs Canoe & Kayak team Quetta.
The Khalsa Sikh men and women, who keep the Five Ks, wear the turban to cover their long, uncut hair (kesh).
The Khan Mohammad Mridha Mosque is a historical mosque near Lalbagh Fort in Dhaka, Bangladesh.
The Khojiki script has also been in use, whereas Devanagari and Gurmukhi are not employed any more.
The Kidarites, vassals of the Hephthalite Empire are known to have invaded Taxila in c. 450 CE.
The Kohistani languages, now all being displaced from their original homelands, were once more widespread in the region and most likely descend from the ancient dialects of the region of Gandhara.
The Koroshi dialect is a dialect of the Balochi language, spoken mainly in the provinces of Fars and Hormozgan.
The Kuru kingdom's heir, Parikshit (grandson of Arjuna) is said to have been enthroned at Takshashila.
The Kushan period is considered the Golden Period of Gandhara.
The Kushans conquered Bactria after having been defeated by the Xiongnu and forced to retreat from the Central Asian steppes.
The Lahore Fort (Punjabi: شاہی قلعہ, romanized: Śā'ī Qilā; Urdu: شاہی قلعہ, romanized: Śāhī Qil'ā; lit.
The Lahore Fort is notable for having been almost entirely rebuilt in the 17th century, when the Mughal Empire was at the height of its splendor and opulence.
The Lahore Museum is known for its extensive collection of Buddhist art from the ancient Indo-Greek and Gandhara kingdoms, as well as from the Mughal, Sikh, and British empires.
The Lodi dynasty, the last of the Delhi Sultanate, was replaced by the Mughal Empire (1526–1857 CE).
The Lollywood, Punjabi and Pashto film industry is based in Lahore and Peshawar.
The MMA seeks to defend the culture and heritage of Pakistan and the majority of its people, the Muslim population.
The Madrasi Para area is home to around 100 Tamil Hindu families.
The Maghrib (sunset) prayer is then performed in congregation and the formal moon-sighting results are announced thereafter.
The Mahmud Gawan Madrasa (begun 1460s) is a large ruined madrasa "of wholly Iranian design" in Bidar founded by a chief minister, with parts decorated in glazed tiles imported by sea from Iran.
The Majhi dialect originated in the Majha region of the Punjab.
The Majhi dialect, which is transitional between the two main varieties, has been adopted as standard Punjabi in India and Pakistan for education and mass media.
The Makli Necropolis at Thatta, which includes tombs of various rulers, noblemen and Sufi saints of Sindh was built between the 14th and 18th centuries.
The Malay variant (worn in Malaysia, Singapore, Brunei and Southern Thailand) is known as the Baju Melayu, shirt worn with a sarong known as kain samping or songket and a headwear known as songkok.
The Maliki scholar Ibn al-Hajj (d. 737 A.H.) also spoke positively of the observance of the Mawlid in his book al-Madhkal.
The Maliki scholar al-Shatibi considered Mawlid an illegitimate innovation.
The Mankiala stupa was also vandalised during their invasions.
The Mankiala stupa was also vandalized during their invasions.
The Maripata Mariamman Temple, which has been demolished, was the biggest Tamil Hindu temple in Karachi.
The Mawlid (Arabic: مولد) is an annual festival commemorating the birthday of the Islamic prophet Muhammad on the traditional date of 12 Rabi' al-Awwal, the third month of the Islamic calendar.
The Mawlid observance is a recognized national holiday in most Muslim-majority countries of the world.
The Mañjuśrīmūlakalpa records that Kaniṣka of the Kushan Empire presided over the establishment of the Mahāyāna Prajñāpāramitā teachings in the northwest.
The Minar-e-Pakistan and Iqbal Park are adjacent to the northern boundary of the fort.
The Minar-e-Pakistan in Lahore, where the Pakistan Resolution was passed in 1940, is fully illuminated on the eve of the independence day to signify its importance in the creation of Pakistan.
The Ministry of Education is also trying to develop instructional programming for radio since Teleschool isn't available to the nation's poorest families.
The Mohenjo-Daro ruler is divided into units corresponding to 34 millimetres (1.32 in) and these are further marked in decimal subdivisions with great accuracy, to within 0.13 mm (0.005 in).
The Mohenjo-daro site was further threatened in January 2014, when Bilawal Bhutto Zardari of the Pakistan People's Party chose the site for Sindh Festival's inauguration ceremony.
The Mosque is one of the most famous Mughal structures but suffered greatly under the reign of Maharaja Ranjit Singh.
The Mosque of Mariyam Zamani Begum was built adjacent to the forts of the eastern walls during the reign of Jahangir.
The Moti Masjid (Urdu: موتی مسجد), one of the "Pearl Mosques", is a mosque dating from the Shah Jahan Period that is located on the western side of Lahore Fort, closer to Alamgiri Gate.
The Motorsport Association of Pakistan (MAP) is a member of the Federation Internationale de L'Automobile FIA.
The Mughal Empire adopted Persian as the court language during their rule over South Asia as did their predecessors, such as the Ghaznavids.
The Mughal Empire ruled between the 16th and 18th centuries, and saw the rise of Mughal architecture, most prevalent in Lahore.
The Mughal dynasty was established after the victory of Babur at Panipat in 1526.
The Mughal dynasty's founder, Babur, was initially based in Kabul, present-day Afghanistan.
The Mughal emperors adapted Persian's Yakchal during their ruled.
The Mughal era has a deep influence on these designs.
The Mughals lost the fort to the Afghan Durranis, who in turn briefly lost the fort to Maratha forces before being recaptured by the Durranis.
The Multani shalwar is very wide, baggy, and full, and has folds like the Punjabi suthan.
The Multani shalwar, also known as the 'ghaire wali' or 'Saraiki ghaire wali' shalwar as it is very wide around the waist, originates from the Multan area of the Punjab region.
The Music of Pakistan includes South Asian, Central Asian, Middle Eastern and contemporary Western influences.
The Muslim League held its annual session at Minto Park in Lahore, Punjab, from 22 March to 24 march 1940.
The Muslim League leadership, ulama (Islamic clergy) and Jinnah had articulated their vision of Pakistan in terms of an Islamic state.
The Muslim community in Vietnam are mostly of the same ethnic as the Cham people.
The Muslims followed a sense of strong geometry in their patterns and most patterns were formed by the interaction of two or more circles.
The NADRA makes it nearly impossible to declare and change the religion to anything from Islam making the statistics somewhat misleading.
The Naag temple is a Sikh temple built by Chand Kaur, the wife of Kharak Singh, daughter in law of the then ruling Maharaja Ranjit Singh.
The Nagarparkar Jain Temples (Urdu: نگرپارکر جین مندر) are located in the region around Nagarparkar, in Pakistan's southern Sindh province.
The National Football Championship served as the highest level football competition from 1948 to 2003, held on knock-out basis and a closed format competition rather than league system.
The National Hockey Championship is the main domestic field hockey competition of Pakistan since 1948.
The National Library publishes and promotes literature in the country.
The National Monument in Islamabad, built in 2007 is in the shape of a blooming flower.
The National Rowing Championship is the major national event of rowing in the country.
The National Women's Basketball Championship is the Women's Basketball tournament.
The Naulakha Pavilion is an iconic sight of the Lahore Fort built in 1633 during the Shah Jahan period that is made of prominent white marble, and known for its distinctive curvilinear roof.
The Naulakha Pavilion served as a personal chamber and was located to the west of the Sheesh Mahal, in the northern section of the fort.
The New Apostolic Church also has followers in Pakistan.
The Nurbakhshi sect is said to retain some elements of Buddhism.
The Objectives Resolution declared that sovereignty over the entire universe belongs to God.
The Ottomans declared it an official holiday in 1588, known as Mevlid Kandil.
The Ottomans under Murad III (r. 1574–1595) declared it an official holiday.
The Oxford Handbook of Cities in World History offers a "weak" estimate of a peak population of around 40,000.
The PCB also set up major domestic competitions such as the Quaid-i-Azam Trophy, the Faysal Bank T20 Cup, the Pakistan Super League and the National Twenty20 Cup.
The PCB awards central contracts to its players which are pay graded according to the category of the contract.
The PCB's experiment with the Twenty20 cricket model has also proven popular and hopes to similarly revive popular interest in domestic games, which it did.
The PCB's rationale in reducing the number of teams in domestic cricket was to concentrate talent in order to increase competition and improve the quality of cricket.
The PFF cites claims of lack of funds from the government, but these claims are largely rejected by players and owners who agree that the PFF was severely mismanaged and corrupt.
The PFF oversees all aspects of the league and makes unilateral decisions over any changes to the format, funding and sponsorship.
The PFF's attempts to cut costs have led to players becoming exhausted.
The PNNABRO, among many other requirements demands that a publisher provides his bank details.
The PTV channels are controlled by the government and opposition views are not given much time.
The Pakistan Academy of Letters is a large literary community that promotes literature and poetry in Pakistan and abroad.
The Pakistan Amateur Boxing Federation (PABF) organizes amateur matches.
The Pakistan Archery Federation is the governing body to develop and promote the game of archery in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Basketball Federation has been part of FIBA since 1958.
The Pakistan Billiards Snooker Association (PBSA) was formed in 1958.
The Pakistan Boxing Federation (PBF) organises boxing matches in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Canoe and Kayak Federation is the only official governing body of canoe and kayak sports in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) chairman Najam Sethi stated that the original schedule was changed due to unforeseen weather, logistic issues and challenges with security.
The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) is responsible for all first class and Test cricket played in Pakistan and by the Pakistan cricket team.
The Pakistan Cricket Board controls all domestic cricket in Pakistan and the national teams.
The Pakistan Cricket Board controls both the men's and women's games.
The Pakistan Cricket Board governs all official domestic tournaments.
The Pakistan Cycling Federation is the governing body of cycling in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority (PEMRA) has been used to silence the broadcast media by either suspending licenses or by simply threatening to do so.
The Pakistan Fashion Design Council based in Lahore organizes PFDC Fashion Week and the Fashion Pakistan Council based in Karachi organizes Fashion Pakistan Week.
The Pakistan Fisherfolk Forum estimates that 14,400 people from the delta coast, majority of them fishermen, are amongst those that have left.
The Pakistan Football Federation (PFF) is the governing body in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Football Federation also faced several bans by FIFA during the years.
The Pakistan Football Federation has been severely criticized for its non-serious attempts to increase the quality of football in the country.
The Pakistan Golf Federation (PGF) run golf in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Handball Federation is a member of the Asia Handball Federation.
The Pakistan Hindu Council runs 13 schools across Tharparkar and also conducts mass wedding of poor Hindu couples.
The Pakistan Hindu Welfare Association was active by convening a national conference on the issue in December 2000.
The Pakistan Hockey Federation (PHF) is the national governing body of field hockey in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Hockey Federation Women Wing (PHFWW) is the official organization of women's field hockey in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Judo Federation is the governing body to develop and promote the game of Judo in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Karate Federation is the national governing body to develop and promote the sport of Karate in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Monument Museum was established in 2010 to pay tribute to all those who worked and sacrificed everything for the Independence of Pakistan.
The Pakistan National Football Challenge Cup is the national "knockout" cup competition in Pakistani football, run by the Pakistan Football Federation.
The Pakistan National Karting Championship was the first motor racing circuit competition in Pakistan and is used to develop rookie drivers.
The Pakistan National Museum of Ethnology (or Folk Heritage Museum) was originally established in 1982 as the "Folk Art Museum".
The Pakistan National Women's Football Championship is the annual women's championship.
The Pakistan Open tournament is one of the premier events of the sport in the country.
The Pakistan Open was founded in 1967 and became an Asian Tour event in 2006.
The Pakistan Penal Code, the main criminal code of Pakistan, punishes blasphemy (Urdu: قانون توہین رسالت) against any recognized religion, providing penalties ranging from a fine to death.
The Pakistan Premier League (PPL; Urdu: پاکستان پریمیئر لیگ) is a Pakistani semi-professional league for men's football clubs.
The Pakistan Premier League is directly under control of the Pakistan Football Federation.
The Pakistan Rowing Federation was a founding member of the Asian Rowing Federation.
The Pakistan Rugby Union then became an associate member of the International Rugby Board (IRB).
The Pakistan Rugby Union was formally established in 2000 and gained memberships with the Asian Rugby Football Union in 2000.
The Pakistan Sailing Federation is the national body, with Karachi and Balochistan Sailing/Yachting Associations as its major units.
The Pakistan Sindh Assembly has ordered compulsory teaching of the Sindhi language in all private schools in Sindh.
The Pakistan Squash Federation is the governing body in the country.
The Pakistan Super League ranks among the top T20 leagues globally.
The Pakistan Table Tennis Federation runs the sport in the country.
The Pakistan Taekwondo Federation is the national governing body to develop and promote the sport of Taekwondo in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Tennis Federation (PTF) organizes the game in the country.
The Pakistan Tourism Development Corporation also announced in 2017 that a tour bus service would be launched between the Taxila Museum and Islamabad.
The Pakistan Weightlifting Federation was formed in 1953.
The Pakistan Wrestling Federation (PWF) is the national governing body of the sport of Wrestling in Pakistan.
The Pakistan census separates the members of scheduled castes from Hindus and has assessed that they form 0.41% of the national population in 2017 census (up from 0.25% in 1998 census).
The Pakistan cricket team have a remarkable Test record at the ground and is known as the fortress of Pakistan cricket.
The Pakistan cricket team toured England from 29 July to 22 September 2010.
The Pakistan government's official chronology claims this as the time when the foundation of Pakistan was laid.
The Pakistan men's national cricket team represents Pakistan in international cricket.
The Pakistan men's national handball team is one of the most successful handball team of South Asia, winning 2 gold and 1 silver medal at the South Asian Games.
The Pakistan military inter services also gives a glance of its power and capabilities during this parade.
The Pakistan national badminton team represents Pakistan in international badminton team competitions.
The Pakistan national ball hockey team is developing and improving, and in 2013 were awarded Pool A status, competing for gold in St. John's, Newfoundland.
The Pakistan national ball hockey team is primarily composed of Canadian Pakistanis, born in Canada or with links to that nation.
The Pakistan national cricket team is governed by the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) and is a member of the Asian Cricket Council (ACC).
The Pakistan national field hockey team has won 3 gold medals at the Olympic Games, and lifted the Hockey World Cup 4 times, being the country with most World Cups till the present.
The Pakistan national futsal team was formed in 2025 when Pakistan participated in the 2026 AFC Futsal Asian Cup qualifiers for the first time.
The Pakistan semi-final was with the host-Sri Lanka.
The Pakistan women's national cricket team has had moderate success on the international stage and is in development.
The Pakistan women's national cricket team has steadily emerged as a symbol of resilience and progress in international cricket.
The Pakistan women's national table tennis team in 1972, competed in the inaugural ATTU Asian Table Tennis Championships held in Beijing, China.
The Pakistani Army had declared itself, the ideological guardian of the two-nation theory which Pakistanis believe to be the basis of Pakistan's national foundation.
The Pakistani Constitution guarantees freedom of expression and the basic premise for media freedom.
The Pakistani Constitution states that Sikhism is a monotheistic religion.
The Pakistani comedy thriller film was co-written and directed by Nabeel Qureshi as his directorial debut.
The Pakistani diaspora organises cultural events to celebrate independence day, and public parades are held in cities with large Pakistani populations, such as New York, London and Dubai.
The Pakistani government has granted permission to Sikhs from India to make pilgrimages to Sikh places of worship in Pakistan and for Pakistani Sikhs to travel to India.
The Pakistani government intensified its grip on the media, leading to media professionals experiencing heightened coercion, censorship, and a surge in journalist arrests.
The Pakistani media landscape reflects a multi-linguistic, multi-ethnic and class-divided society.
The Pakistani team was in Bangladesh prior to the World T20, due to 2014 Asia Cup, which was held by Bangladesh.
The Pakistanis had ignored the Indian Prime Minister's (then Lal Bahadur Shastri's) warnings that India would retaliate against Pakistan if Kashmir were attacked.
The Pakol traces its origins to the extreme north of Pakistan, specifically the Gilgit, Astore and Hunza areas, from where it spread to Chitral by the 19th century.
The Pala dynasty was the last Buddhist empire, which, under Dharmapala and Devapala, stretched across South Asia from what is now Bangladesh through Northern India to Pakistan.
The Panchatantra is also said to have originated in this region.
The Partition of India in 1947 resulted in most Sindhi speakers ending up in the new state of Pakistan, commencing a push to establish a strong sub-national linguistic identity for Sindhi.
The Pashto Tolana was later incorporated into the Academy of Sciences Afghanistan in line with Soviet model following the Saur Revolution in 1978.
The Pashto alphabet consists of 45 to 46 letters and 4 diacritic marks.
The Pashtuns in northern Balochistan wear clothes similar to the styles worn in Afghanistan.
The Pass bachelor's degrees are now slowly being phased out for Honours throughout the country.
The Persian ghazal evolved into its own distinctive form between the 12th and 13th centuries.
The Persian traveller Al Biruni's memoirs suggest Buddhism had vanished from the medieval Punjab region by the early 11th century.
The Perso-Arabic script is recognised as the official script of Kashmiri language by the Jammu and Kashmir government and the Jammu and Kashmir Academy of Art, Culture and Languages.
The Peshawari shalwar can be used with a number of upper garments and is part of the clothing of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
The Picture Wall was badly neglected and suffered from disrepair and damage.
The Portuguese priest Sebastien Manrique described rice dishes on sale in the tent-city of the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan as he travelled to Lahore in 1641.
The Pothohari shalwar retains the wideness of the older Punjabi suthan and also has some folds.
The President and Prime Minister of Pakistan address the nation in live telecasts.
The President of Pakistan is usually the Chief Guest; also in attendance are the Prime Minister of Pakistan alongside the Cabinet ministers, military chiefs of staff, and chairman joint chiefs.
The Press Council Ordinance has a direct link to the Press, Newspapers, News Agencies and Books Registration Ordinance (PNNABRO) of 2002.
The Pro Kabaddi League was established in 2014.
The Punjab Olympic Association made a similar request in late October 2011 to the provincial chief minister.
The Punjab province is home to various ethnic groups, resulting in variations in cuisine across the region.
The Punjabi Braille is used by the visually impaired.
The Punjabi Muslim festivals are set according to the lunar Islamic calendar (Hijri), and the date falls earlier by 10 to 13 days from year to year.
The Punjabi Muslims typically observe the Islamic festivals.
The Punjabi Sahit academy, Ludhiana, established in 1954 is supported by the Punjab state government and works exclusively for promotion of the Punjabi language, as does the Punjabi academy in Delhi.
The Punjabi Sikhs and Hindus typically do not observe these, and instead observe Lohri, Basant and Vaisakhi as seasonal festivals.
The Punjabi form and localization of Company paintings would be born out of this increased interaction between European and Punjabi artists.
The Punjabi language is written in multiple scripts (a phenomenon known as synchronic digraphia).
The Punjabi language is written with the Gurmukhi alphabet in India and with the Shahmukhi alphabet in Pakistan.
The Punjabi literary tradition is popularly seen to commence with Fariduddin Ganjshakar (1173–1266).
The Punjabi shalwar is also cut straight and gathered at the ankles with a loose band reinforced with coarse material.
The Punjabi suit is popular in other regions of the Indian subcontinent, such as Mumbai and Sindh.
The Punjabi suthan is arranged in plaits and uses large amounts of material (traditionally coloured cotton with vertical silk lines, called sussi) of up to 20 yards hanging in many folds.
The Punjabi verbal system is largely structured around a combination of aspect and tense/mood.
The Punjabi wedding has many rituals and ceremonies that have evolved since traditional times and itself have evolved in Pakistani Punjab and Indian Punjab.
The Qibla Wall is covered with blue and white calligraphic tiles designed by a Turkish artist Mengu Ertel.
The Qissa of Heer Ranjha by Waris Shah (1706–1798) is among the most popular of Punjabi qisse.
The Quran, Sunnah, Hadith and Muslim theology is taught in Arabic with Urdu translation.
The Quwwat-ul-Islam Mosque, now a ruin, was the first structure.
The Raam Kunde Complex of Temples at Saidpur village in Islamabad is now a picnic site.
The Rajput architecture makes an extensive use of Jalis, Chatris and Jharokhas.
The Ramayana describes Takshashila as a magnificent city famed for its wealth which was founded by Bharata, the younger brother of Rama.
The Ravi now runs eight kilometres (five miles) to the north.
The Red Fort in Delhi is also an important example of Mughal Architecture.
The Red Fort, and the Jama Masjid, Delhi are also claimed by Pakistani nationalists as belonging to Pakistanis.
The Ruins of Taxila include four major cities, each belonging to a distinct time period, at three different sites.
The SSC exams consist of a total of 1100 marks divided between 9th and 10th.
The Salwar and Kancha's pleats are created by bringing the folds together on opposite sides.
The Saraikis are an Indo-Aryan ethnolinguistic group inhabiting parts of central and southeastern Pakistan, primarily in the southern part of the Pakistani province of Punjab.
The Sehdari pavilion, or "Three-doored" pavilion, was added to the fort during this period, as was the Ath dara or "Eight-doored" pavilion.
The Sehwan Sharif shrine was the site of a suicide bombing in 2017 carried out by the Islamic State.
The Shah Jahan Mosque in Thatta reflects a heavy Persian influence.
The Shah Jahan Mosque is the central mosque for the city of Thatta, in the Pakistani province of Sindh.
The Shaheed Benazir Bhutto International Boxing Tournament took place in the KPT Benazir Sports Complex in Karachi, Pakistan from 1–8 January 2010.
The Shahmukhī script, a variant of the Urdu alphabet, is used to write the Punjabi language in Pakistan though it is not in common use these days.
The Shalamar Gardens were laid out as a Persian paradise garden intended to create a representation of an earthly utopia in which humans co-exist in perfect harmony with all elements of nature.
The Shalimar Garden is located next to the Grand Trunk Road, about 5 kilometres (3.1 mi) east of the Delhi Gate of the Walled City of Lahore.
The Shalimar Garden's contain the most waterworks of any Mughal Garden.
The Shalimar Gardens are laid out in the form of a rectangle aligned along a north–south axis, and measure 658 metres by 258 metres, and cover an area of 16 hectares.
The Shalimar Gardens were designed as a Persian-style Charbagh "Paradise garden" - a microcosm of an earthly utopia.
The Shandur Polo Ground besides Shandur Pass is the world's highest, at approximately 3,734 metres (12,251 ft).
The Shandur polo ground at Shandur Pass is the world's highest, at approximately 3,734 metres (12,251 ft).
The Shangla district is the only district of Pakistan that composed of more than 80% of forest land.
The Sharjah Cricket Stadium (Arabic: ملعب الشارقة للكريكيت) is located in Sharjah in the United Arab Emirates.
The Sharjah stadium was one of the dedicated venues for the 2021 ICC Men's T20 World Cup.
The Sheesh Mahal ("The Palace of Mirrors"; Urdu: شیش محل) is located within Jahangir's Shah Burj block in the northern-western corner of the Lahore Fort.
The Shri Katas Raj Temples (Punjabi, Urdu: شری کٹاس راج مندر) also known as Qila Katas (قلعہ کٹاس), is a complex of several Hindu temples connected to one another by walkways.
The Shri Varun Dev Mandir and Sharada Peeth are other examples of Hindu temple architecture in Pakistan.
The Sikh royalty and nobality during the reign of the Sikh Empire had their residences embellished with these erotic wall paintings.
The Sikh-era Sehdari pavilion, or "Three-doored" pavilion, is located to the east of the Bari Khwabgah.
The Sikhs made several additions to the fort.
The Sikhs regard the dastār as an important part of the unique Sikh identity.
The Sindh Board of Revenue continues to manage 272,485 hectares (673,330 acres, 44%) of the area.
The Sindh Hindu Marriage Bill was passed by the Provincial Assembly of Sindh in February 2016.
The Sindh kingdom and its rulers play an important role in the Indian epic story of the Mahabharata.
The Sindhi Ajrak has rich central patterns natively called "Jaal".
The Sindhi bride wear red color heavy embroidered Lehenga Choli/Cholo as wedding dress, with two veils and a lot of jewelries and ornaments.
The Sindhi culture is also practised by the Sindhi diaspora.
The Sindhi kafi is an indigenous musical form of Sindh and Punjab, Pakistan.
The Sindhi kafi is short, simple, and lucid in composition and tone.
The Sindhi language TV channels and Political Parties of Sindh, first time celebrated Sindhi Cultural Day (Ekta Day) together for the first time on December 8, 2013.
The Sindhi-Roman script or Roman-Sindhi script is the contemporary Sindhi script usually used by the Sindhis when texting messages on their mobile phones.
The Sindhis are an Indo-Aryan ethnolinguistic group who speak the Sindhi language and are native to the Sindh province of Pakistan.
The Ski Federation of Pakistan, created in December 1990, runs the sport.
The South Asian samosa is believed to be derived from a medieval precursor from the Middle East that was baked and not deep fried.
The Southern dialect of Tareeno is the most distinctive Pashto dialect.
The Sri Lankan squad arrived in Lahore under "extraordinary" security and made their way to the team's hotel in a bomb-proof bus.
The Sri Lankan team was air-lifted from Gaddafi Stadium to a nearby airbase, from where they were evacuated back to Sri Lanka.
The Standard Punjabi used in India and Pakistan has slight differences.
The Stani Army also takes part in charity initiatives for underprivileged Pakistanis, including annual friendly cricket matches against British Indian members of the similar "Bharat Army".
The State Bank of Pakistan issued a special banknote of rupee 5 depicting the tomb of Baha-ud-din Zakariya on 13 August 1997, commemorating the 50th independence day.
The Sufi poets Shah Abdul Latif, Bulleh Shah, Mian Muhammad Bakhsh, and Khawaja Farid enjoy considerable popularity in Pakistan.
The Sufi poets whose texts have made up the qawwali repertory often used worldly images to convey mystic spiritual love.
The Summer Palace remained in use during the Sikh period under the reign of Ranjit Singh.
The Swat Valley in Pakistan has many Buddhist carvings and stupas, and Jehanabad contains a Seated Buddha statue.
The Taj Mahal, a World Heritage Site was built between 1632 and 1653; commissioned by the emperor Shah Jahan in memory of his wife Mumtaz Mahal .
The Taliban deliberately targeted Gandhara Buddhist relics for destruction.
The Taliban had earlier occupied the homes of 10 Sikh families in Qasimkhel in neighbouring Afghanistan and kidnapped a local Sikh leader named Saiwang Singh.
The Taliban used to wear turbans, the traditional Pashtun headgear, preferably the dark variety of Kandahar, while their opponents continued to wear the pakol.
The Tomb of Anarkali, Hiran Minar and Begum Shahi Mosque also date back to this period.
The Tomb of Jahangir, the fourth Mughal Emperor, was completed in 1637 during the reign of his son and successor Shah Jahan.
The Tomb of Safdar Jung completed in 1754 is one of the last examples of Mughal Architecture.
The Tomb of Salim Chishti is famed as one of the finest examples of Mughal architecture in India, built during the years 1580 and 1581.
The Tour de Pakistan International Cycling Race starts from Karachi and ends in Peshawar, with about 150 domestic and international cyclists taking part every year.
The Tughlaqs had a corps of government architects and builders, and in this and other roles employed many Hindus.
The Turk Shahis ruled Gandhara until 843 CE when they were overthrown by the Hindu Shahis.
The Turki Shahi dynasty of Kabul was replaced by the Hindu Shahi dynasty which was overthrown by Mahmud of Ghazni with the defeat of Trilochanpala.
The UAE has hosted matches in the Indian Premier League, with matches being played on the ground on each occasion.
The UK Foreign Office states that it is vital that the right to freedom of expression continues to be upheld by the Pakistani Government.
The UN's Food and Agriculture Organisation estimates 2.2% of the total land of Pakistan is covered by forests.
The Udichya region was another region mentioned in ancient texts and is noted by Pāṇini as comprising both the regions of Vahika and Gandhara.
The Umm al-Qura calendar is just a guide for planning purposes and not the absolute determinant or fixer of dates.
The Urdu alphabet is a right-to-left alphabet.
The Urdu media, particularly the newspapers, are widely read by the masses - mostly in rural areas.
The Urdu movement, which was a sociopolitical movement aimed at making Urdu as the universal lingua-franca of the Muslims of the subcontinent was fuelled by Aligarh movement of Sir Syed Ahmed Khan.
The Urdu spoken by Stranded Pakistanis in Bangladesh is different from this dialect.
The Urdu version Musafir did not do well at the box office.
The Urs (death anniversary) of Sufi saints accounts for the largest gathering upon their shrines held annually by the devotees.
The Valmiki or Balmikis are Hindu worshippers of Valmiki, the author of The Ramayana.
The Vedic civilisation flourished in the ancient Gandhāran city of Takṣaśilā, now Taxila in the Punjab, which was founded around 1000 BCE.
The Victorian novel, Elizabethan drama, free verse and Modernism entered Punjabi literature through the introduction of British education during the Raj.
The Virsa Media Centre undertakes recordings to focus on traditional music and cultural heritage.
The Virsa Research & Publication Centre conducts field surveys particularly in the rural regions to record oral traditions.
The Visual Arts Division (VAD) was established /set up in 1974 initially named as "Plastic Arts Division".
The WWF is working on conservation methods to alleviate the Indus delta's shortage of freshwater.
The Wazir Khan Mosque was commissioned by the royal physician Wazir Khan during the reign of the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan in 1634, and completed in 1642.
The World Open professional championship was inaugurated in 1976 and serves as the main competition today.
The World Wild Fund report that between 2000 and 2010 Pakistan has lost 43,000 hectares of land every year.
The Xiyu Zhuan describes Tianzhu's customs as bearing similarities to that of the Yuezhi and the inhabitants riding on elephants in warfare.
The Yuezhi fragmented the region of Bactria into five distinct territories, with each tribe of the Yuezhi assuming dominion over a separate kingdom.
The ab-dar khana at Fatehpur Sikri used sandstone cisterns and qanats, resembling yakhchāl, to cool water and make sherbets and early desserts.
The ablative and locative cases are used with only some lexemes in the singular number and hence not listed, but predictably take the suffixes -ā̃ / -aū̃ / -ū̃ (ABL) and -i (LOC).
The ablative occurs only in the singular, in free variation with oblique case plus ablative postposition, and the locative and instrumental are usually confined to set adverbial expressions.
The accounts of Lohri celebration in royal circles do not discuss the origins of the festival.
The act later received royal assent on 18 July 1947.
The active part of the delta is 6,000 km2 in area (2,300 sq mi).
The activities of PNCA are performed on the basis of policies framed by its Board of Governors headed by the Minister for National Heritage & Integration with 28 members.
The adoption of specific items of clothing to mark a new identity, especially a religious one, is well established in history.
The advent of Islamic rule under the Delhi Sultanate and later the Mughal Empire over northern India caused considerable cultural interchange.
The affricates /tɕ, tɕʰ, dʑ, dʑʱ/ are laminal post-alveolars with a relatively short release.
The aims and objectives of the Academy are to promote and disseminate the study and understanding of the works and teachings of Allama Iqbal.
The alap gradually unfolds into more rhythmic jod and jhala sections.
The alphabet was further modified over the years.
The alphabet was used for several texts, including children's books, newspapers, and ideological works.
The analysis suggested that the majority of the genome was closely related to Mesolithic Iranian hunter-gatherers.
The ancestry of the IVC-related individual is similar to the majority of the ancestry of modern South Asians.
The ancient Grand Trunk Road is designated as N-5 National Highway, and connects the city to the Afghan border, and northern Punjab.
The ancient Sindhi civilization was a place where the aesthetic utilisation of leisure was freely indulged.
The ancient city of Harappa was heavily damaged under British rule when bricks from the ruins were used as track ballast to construct the Lahore–Multan Railway.
The ancient significance of the festival is it being a winter crop season celebration.
The ancient university was documented by the invading forces of Alexander the Great and was also recorded by Chinese pilgrims in the 4th or 5th century CE.
The animal depicted on a majority of seals at sites of the mature period has not been clearly identified.
The animals are traditionally decorated with garlands.
The animals have to meet certain age and quality standards to be considered for sacrifice.
The annexation under Cyrus was limited to the Western sphere of Gandhāra as only during the reign of Darius the Great did the region between the Indus River and the Jhelum River become annexed.
The annual Hinglaj Yatra is the largest Hindu pilgrimage in Pakistan.
The annual Mela Chiraghan festival used to take place in the gardens until General Ayub Khan forbade it in 1958.
The annual Shandur Polo Festival is an international event attended by enthusiasts from all over the world.
The architect of the mosque is said to have been Persian.
The architectural patronage of Babur, the first Mughal emperor, is mainly known for its terraced gardens.
The architectural style of the Sehdari pavilion is typical of the Sikh period.
The architecture of other regional Muslim states was often more impressive.
The architecture of the Malwa and Jaunpur sultanates has also left some significant buildings.
The architecture of the fort clearly indicates the free adoption of the Rajput planning and construction.
The area constituting Pakistan was historically a part of the British Indian Empire throughout much of the nineteenth century.
The area covered by this civilisation would have been very large with a distance of around 2,400 kilometres (1,500 mi).
The area of the late Harappan period consisted of the areas of the Daimabad, Maharashtra, and Badakshan regions of Afghanistan.
The area was part of the ancient Gandhara region.
The areca nut also appears as a fertility symbol in religious and marriage ceremonies.
The areca nut can be replaced with tobacco or the two chewed together, and the betel leaves can be excluded.
The arrival of Islam in today's Pakistan - first in Sindh - during the 8th century CE meant a sudden end of Buddhist architecture.
The arrival of Islam in what is today Pakistan meant the gradual end of Buddhist architecture in the area and a transition to Islamic architecture.
The arrival of Islam through trade and conquests by various Arab, Turkic, Persian, and Afghan dynasties influenced the local cuisine of the region to a great degree.
The art form has been used in large-scale urban murals like Doha’s JedariArt.
The art is a mode of expression for the truck drivers.
The aspiration is not phonemic; it is phonetically realised on the whole syllable, and results from an underlying /h/ that follows the vowel, thus [ɓʰɛh] is phonemically /ɓɛh/.
The assailants attacked the small temple built by the local Hindu community and adjoining homes belonging to members of the minority community in the Kashmore area of the Sindh Province.
The attack came after the Mari Mata Temple in Karachi's Soldier Bazar was razed to the ground by bulldozers in the presence of a heavy contingent of police force late on Friday night.
The attack came as a surprise to the Pakistani commanders.
The attacks are generally attributed to banned militant organisations.
The audience also included Ugrashravas, an itinerant bard, who would later recite the story to a group of priests at an ashram in the Naimisha Forest from where the story was further disseminated.
The author argues if linear trend were maintained since 1972, Pakistan could have touched 4 percent of GDP well before 2015.
The author suggests that little success can be made unless Pakistan adopts an "unconventional" approach to education.
The authority has the power to grant and revoke licenses, ensuring that broadcasters adhere to the established regulations.
The authority is entrusted with the task of fostering a media environment that adheres to ethical and professional standards while promoting freedom of expression.
The authors speculated the food-balls to be of a ritualistic significance, given the finds of bull figurines, adze and a seal in immediate vicinity.
The average annual rainfall of Mohenjo-daro is 100.1 mm and mainly occurs in the monsoon season.
The average yield per acre is 2.27 tons.
The bait style is a form of vocal music, characterized by two variations: sanhoon (low voice) and Graham (high voice).
The ball was replaced and England was awarded 5 penalty runs.
The ban was later removed a month later by the education commission, following outrage on social media.
The bansuri, shehnai and harmonium are important wind instruments.
The base unit used was known as the angula (finger) and is about 17 mm.
The basic family unit is the extended family, although for socio-economic reasons there has been a growing trend towards nuclear families.
The batter is most commonly made with gram flour or a mixture of gram flour and rice flour but variants can use other flours, such as buckwheat flour.
The beloved's power to captivate the speaker may be represented in extended metaphors about the "arrows of his eyes", or by referring to the beloved as an assassin or a killer.
The best known example of Mughal architecture is the Taj Mahal.
The betel has no fruit and is grown only for the sake of its leaves ...
The betel is a tree which is cultivated in the same manner as the grape-vine; ...
The betel nut chewing tradition of the Chamorro people of the Mariana Islands (Chamorro: pugua') prefer ripe (red) areca nuts.
The biggest moment came in Asian Test Championship in 1998 where they defeated Sri Lanka in the final by an innings and 175 runs.
The bonfire is lit at sunset in the main village square.
The boys and young men in some communities might apply it as well but, with very simple designs like a circle in their palms or just coloring the fingertips.
The boys sing Lohri songs asking for Lohri items.
The building has gilded fluted domes and cupolas, and an ornate balustrade around the upper portion of the building.
The building was officially handed back to the Muslim community by John Lawrence, who was the Viceroy of British India.
The building was then re-established as a mosque.
The building's longest plane of symmetry runs through the entire complex except for the sarcophagus of Shah Jahan, which is placed off centre in the crypt room below the main floor.
The building's structural integrity was affected by its use as a storehouse.
The buildings are usually constructed out of red sandstone and white marble, and make use of decorative work such as pachin kari and jali-latticed screens.
The burka has historically been associated with women of higher class and suggested women didn't need to work.
The burka is an essential part of Pashtun culture as it conveys honor and respect to others, in society, however it is not worn by children, young girls or elderly women.
The burqa is also not worn by rural peasant women who work in the fields.
The burqa is the most visible dress in Pakistan.
The buses in Asia are colorful wonders to behold.
The calligraphic styles used are Naskh and Nastaʿlīq.
The cap's practical design allows pulling it down to cover the ears and neck in cold weather and rolling it up for warmer temperatures.
The capital of the kingdom was in Taxila.
The captain and coach were originally appointed to the committee, however they were later removed.
The carbonized wheat grains discovered at the excavations at Mohenjo-daro are of a similar variety to an endemic species of wheat still found in India.
The cartridges had to bitten open to use the gunpowder, effectively meaning that sepoys would have to bite the lard and tallow.
The carvings at Badshahi Mosque are considered to be uniquely fine and unsurpassed works of Mughal architecture.
The cattle that are often portrayed on Indus seals are humped Indian aurochs (Bos primigenius namadicus), which are similar to Zebu cattle.
The ceiling is decorated with colourful mirror-work, and Kangra style frescoes depicting Krishna are present on the interior walls.
The ceilings are decorated with glass mosaic work.
The celebration is typically marked by a one- or two-day national holiday.
The celebration lasts between two and ten days depending on region.
The celebration of Lohri with the making of a huge bonfire at night is also noted in the royal court in 1844.
The celebrations last as long as three days.
The celebrations occurred during the day, in contrast to modern day observances, with the ruler playing a key role in the ceremonies.
The celebrations regarding the holiday include a full military and civilian parade in the capital, Islamabad.
The cells were replaced by open arcades known as dalans.
The cenotaph has an exquisitely designed lattice screen around it.
The census excludes data from Gilgit-Baltistan and Azad Kashmir, therefore Shina and Balti population might not be exact.
The census publications group this with speakers of related "mother tongues" like Bagri and Bhateali to arrive at the figure of 33.12 million.
The center offers professional documentaries and video programs to television networks, universities and other institutions on rental as well as on sale basis.
The central notion in both systems is that of a melodic musical mode or raga, sung to a rhythmic cycle or tala.
The central theme of many Lohri songs is the legend of Dulla Bhatti (Rai Abdullah Bhatti) whose father was a zamindar who lived in Punjab during the reign of Mughal Emperor Akbar.
The central themes of qawwali are love, devotion, and longing for the Divine.
The central vowel /ə/ is more open and back than the corresponding vowel in neighbouring varieties.
The ceremony was graced by prominent figures, including Sindh Governor Kamran Tessori, Chief Minister Murad Ali Shah, and Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) Chairman Mohsin Naqvi.
The chambers feature carved marble screens and are decorated with inlaid white marble and frescoes, It is the first building built by Shah Jahan in the fort.
The chambers on each side of the main chamber contains rooms which were used for religious instruction.
The channel aired syndicated television shows from Pakistan, and has been well received.
The chapli kabab originates from Peshawar in Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan and is found across South Asia.
The chapli kebab is best served aromatic, moist and spicy.
The chapli kebab is prepared with raw, marinated mince and the meat can be either beef or lamb/mutton.
The chewing of the product is part of the culture of Cambodia, Laos, and Thailand.
The cities of Taxila (Takṣaśilā) at Sirsukh and Purushapura (modern-day Peshawar) reached new heights.
The city also had large platforms perhaps intended as defense against flooding.
The city had a central marketplace, with a large central well.
The city is believed to have become part of the Achaemenid Empire during 550 – 326 BCE.
The city is linked to Peshawar and Islamabad by the M-1 Motorway, which in turn offers wider motorway access to Lahore via the M-2 Motorway, and Faisalabad via the M-4 Motorway.
The city is located approximately 549 metres (1,801 ft) above sea level.
The city of Islamabad was designed by Greek architect Constantinos Apostolou Doxiadis and completed in 1966.
The city of Multan is known as the city of saints.
The city of Peshawar today is home to four Hindu tribes – the Balmiks, the Rajputs, the Heer Ratan Raths and the Bhai Joga Singh Gurdwara community.
The city remained inhabited through the Greek, Shaka, Pahlava, and Kushan periods.
The city's economy is also closely linked to the large Pakistan Ordnance Factories at nearby Wah Cantt, which employs 27,000 people.
The city's modern name, however, is derived from the ancient Greek rendering noted in Ptolemy's Geography.
The civilization's mature phase lasted from 2600 BC to 2000 BC.
The classic Mughal tomb was an octagonal or rectangular structure with a central dome and outer iwans, raised on a terraced platform.
The climate is arid, the region only receives between 25 and 50 centimetres (9.8 and 19.7 in) of rainfall in a normal year.
The climate of the delta is described as arid.
The cloth is also a visible marker of Sindhi identity and appears in exhibitions and media about Sindhi textiles.
The cloth is printed using carved wooden blocks and resist-dye techniques passed down through generations.
The cloth is widely used in Sindhi public and cultural life and is presented as a gesture of hospitality and respect.
The clothing of Azad Kashmir includes various styles of the shalwar kameez.
The clothing of Balochistan, Pakistan includes the shalwar kameez which when worn by males consists of a very baggy shalwar using large lengths of cloth.
The coin was unearthed at the depth of 25 feet (7.6 m) from the lawn.
The collection of buildings surrounding the quadrangle situated between Jahangir's Quadrangle and Khilawat Khana is referred to as Shah Jahan's Quadrangle.
The color of the dress is usually red and is covered with variety of other ornaments.
The columns of rooms are ornamented with a variety of Hindu sculptural motifs.
The combination garment is sometimes called salwar kurta, salwar suit, Punjabi suit, and Punjabi dress.
The combination garment is sometimes called salwar kurta, salwar suit, or Punjabi suit.
The common ancestor of all of the languages in this family is called Proto-Indo-Iranian—also known as Common Aryan—which was spoken in approximately the late 3rd millennium BC.
The common base of the two languages is sometimes referred to as the Hindi–Urdu or Hindustani language, and Urdu has been described as a Persianised standard register of the Hindustani language.
The common turban comes in a spectrum of colors with unique striped patterns.
The complex is located in the Potohar Plateau region of Pakistan's Punjab province.
The complex postpositions are formed with a case marker, usually the genitive but sometimes the ablative.
The complexity and diversity of the diaspora necessitate recognizing multiple identities and resisting the tendency to homogenize or erase particular communities.
The compositions by the court musician Sadarang in the court of Muhammad Shah bear a closer affinity to the modern khyal.
The concept of South Asian truck art itself generally goes back to the 1920s during British rule in Colonial India, in which trucks were imported into the country.
The concept of decorating transportation and vehicles may go back to Indus valley civilization era, where people used different items for decorations on transportation.
The congregation performs ruku and sujud.
The congregation rises and folds their hands for the second rak'ah, after which the imam recites al-Fatiha followed by another surah.
The conservative newspaper, Nawa-i-Waqt, established in 1940 was the mouthpiece of the Muslim elites who were among the strongest supporters for an independent Pakistan.
The consistent changes in the domestic structure and the gradual introduction of departmental teams was encouraged as it provided permanent jobs to players.
The consonant h on its own is now silent or very weakly pronounced except word-initially.
The consonant to vowel ratio is around average for the world's languages at 2.8.
The constitutional assembly reaffirmed the status of Pashto as an official language in 1964 when Afghan Persian was officially renamed to Dari.
The construction of the elegant Zinat al-Masjid in Daryaganj was overseen by Aurangzeb's second daughter Zinat-al-Nissa.
The construction of the walled city was started in 1569 and completed in 1574.
The consumption of paan has long been a very popular cultural tradition in Pakistan, especially in the port city of Karachi, although the tradition is dying among the younger generation.
The consumption of tea in Pakistan, called chai (چائے) is of central significance to Pakistani culture.
The contrasts /ŋ/ ~ /ŋɡ/, and /ɲ/ ~ /ɲdʒ/ are weak; the single nasal is more common in southern varieties, and the nasal + stop cluster is prevalent in central dialects.
The cookery writer Pratibha Karan states that biryani is of Indian origin, derived from pilau which Muslim traders and invaders brought with them.
The core of the collection comes from excavated sites in the Taxila Valley, particularly the excavations of Sir John Marshall.
The core of the region of Gandhara was the Peshawar and Swat valleys, extending up to Kabul and Bagram in the west and the Pothohar Plateau in the east.
The corporation has been run by former cricketers, professional administrators and trustees, who are often respected businessmen.
The corporatization of sports in Pakistan has led to a lack of investment in nurturing talented athletes and providing adequate facilities and training.
The country is dotted with numerous ancient and disused Buddhist stupas along the entire breadth of the Indus River that courses through the heart of the country.
The country is where the areca palm (Areca catechu) is originally native to and where the tradition started before being spread via the Austronesian expansion (see history section).
The country was subjected to alternating military and democratic rule - but has managed to thrive on basic democratic norms.
The couplets may have nothing to do with one another except for the formal unity derived from a strict rhyme and rhythm pattern.
The courtyard is enclosed by single-aisled arcades.
The courtyard which spreads over 276,000 square feet, can accommodate one hundred thousand worshippers; ten thousand can be accommodated inside the mosque.
The covered area of Mohenjo-daro is estimated at 300 hectares.
The cricket stadium also hosted the inaugural edition of the T10 cricket league, which is a 90-minute cricket league from 14 to 17 December 2017 featuring several international cricket players.
The cricket team (known as Shaheen) won the Cricket World Cup held in 1992; it was runner-up once, in 1999.
The criteria of dialect differentiation in Pashto are primarily phonological.
The crucial match was with West Indies, where the winning team would go through to the semi-final.
The cuisine of Pakistan also maintains many Mughlai cuisine influences within its recipes and cooking techniques, particularly the use of dried fruits and nuts.
The cuisine of the Chitrali people is influenced by their geography and location.
The culinary traditions of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa are deeply rooted in Pashtun or Afghan culture and are heavily influenced by Iranic culinary traditions.
The cultural layers were continuous to the depth of 15 feet (4.6 m) indicating that the fort was inhabited by people even before his conquest.
The culture of Kashmir was influenced by the Persian as well as Central Asian cultures after the Islamic rule of Kashmir.
The culture of Pakistan (Urdu: ثقافتِ پاکستان, romanized: S̱eqāfat-e Pākistān) lies at the intersection of Turco-Persian, Arab, and Hindustani cultural traditions.
The culture of chewing paan has also spread in Punjab, where a paan shop can be found in almost every street and market.
The culture, languages, literature, history of the region along with influence of Islam was the basis of Pakistani nationalist narrative.
The current structure was built by the British in 1849 after their victory against the Sikhs.
The current village of Harappa is less than one kilometre (5⁄8 mi) from the ancient site.
The curriculum is usually subject to the institution.
The curriculum portrays Pakistan as a leader of the Muslim world in opposition to the West.
The dance is also performed in circle, to the tune of emotional songs.
The dance, which is intensive, usually lasts up to 30 minutes, and is finished until exhaustion of all the performers.
The dances range from solo to group dances and also sometimes dances are done along with Punjabi traditional musical instruments.
The date of Lohri changes every 70 years.
The day after Lohri is celebrated as Makar Sankranti.
The day also celebrates the adoption of the Lahore Resolution by the Muslim League at the Minar-e-Pakistan (lit.
The day begins with special prayers for the integrity, solidarity, and development of Pakistan in mosques and religious places across the country.
The day is also known as Mawlid al-Nabi and sometimes spelled Milad in some areas.
The day is celebrated annually primarily by Government officials and army staff throughout the country and is a public holiday for civilians.
The day is known as Fitër Bajrami or Bajrami i Madh in Albania.
The death of Waheed Murad in 1983 was only the start of the demise of iconic cinema stars of the 60s which further led to decreased interest.
The decimal subdivision on the ruler is noteworthy, as it predates the modern metric system by 3000 years or more.
The declension of a noun in Sindhi is largely determined from its grammatical gender and the final vowel (or if there is no final vowel).
The decoration often contains elements that remind the truck drivers of home, since they may be away from home for months at a time.
The definition of literacy has been undergoing changes, with the result that the literacy figure has vacillated irregularly during the various censuses.
The delegation gave Sri Lanka Cricket "very positive feedback", suggesting that Sri Lanka could be open to playing a Test match in Pakistan.
The delta also used to have large pastures for livestock grazing.
The delta covers an area of about 41,440 km2 (16,000 sq mi), and is approximately 210 km (130 mi) across where it meets the sea.
The delta faces pollution both from sea and the Indus river.
The delta faces pollution from the Arabian Sea.
The delta falls within the districts of Thatta and Badin of the Sindh province.
The delta is home to the largest arid mangrove forests in the world, as well as many birds, fish and the Indus dolphin.
The dental implosive in Jhangi is articulated with the tongue completely covering the upper teeth.
The dentals /t tʰ d dʰ/ are articulated with the blade of the tongue against the surface behind the teeth.
The dentition of the skeletons is stained, typical of betel chewers.
The deputy commissioner of Jamaican police.
The desi gharanas further developed into the present-day adavus.
The design features eight-sided shell shaped sloping roofs forming a triangular worship hall which can hold 10,000 worshippers.
The dhrupad style (vanis) of the gharana is Gauhar, Khandar and Nauharvani.
The dialect of English spoken in Pakistan is known as Pakistani English.
The dialectal differences are not very significant.
The dietary pattern remained the same throughout the decline.
The different layers can be individually coloured and flavoured with a brightly-coloured spice such as turmeric or saffron.
The different paradigms are listed below with examples.
The diffusion of Indo-Greek culture had consequences which are still felt today, particularly through the influence of Greco-Buddhist art.
The director of his unfinished film Hero, employed 'cheat shots' to complete the film and released to sold out cinemas across the country.
The dish is often associated with the region's Muslim population.
The distinctive Indo-Islamic architecture style of Gujarat drew micro-architectural elements from earlier Maru-Gurjara architecture and employed them in mihrab, roofs, doors, minarets and facades.
The distinctive Shah Jahani style is reflected in the extensive use of white marble, and hierarchical accents of the construction.
The dome is decorated with Naga (serpent) hood designs - the product of Hindu craftsmen that worked on the project.
The dramas and plays often deal with themes from everyday life, often with a humorous touch.
The dress worn by most men consist of a homespun cap black, brown or grey made in the shape of a bag and rolled up until it fits the skull.
The dupatta is also employed as a form of modesty—although it is made of delicate material, it obscures the upper body's contours by passing over the shoulders.
The dynasty is argued to have been founded by Vijayakamitra, identified as a vassal to Menander II, according to the Shinkot casket.
The earliest attested records in Sindhi are from the 15th century.
The earliest example in Pakistan is the Lahore Fort, which had existed at least since the 11th century but was completely rebuilt by various Mughal Emperors like Akbar and Jahangir (1556–1627) .
The earliest example of a mosque from the days of infancy of Islam in South Asia is the Mihrablose mosque of Banbhore, from the year 727, the first Muslim place of worship in South Asia.
The earliest examples of the Indus script date to the 3rd millennium BCE.
The earliest known Sindhi poet of the Sufi tradition is Qazi Qadan (1493–1551).
The earliest mention of a samosa precursor was by Abbasid-era poet Ishaq al-Mawsili, praising the sanbusaj.
The earliest of these translations show evidence of having been translated from the Gāndhārī language.
The earliest recognisably Harappan sites date to 3500 BC.
The earliest reference to Sindhi literature is contained in the writings of Arab historians.
The earliest settlement at Taxila is found in the Hathial section, which yielded pottery shards that date from as early as the late 2nd millennium BCE to the 6th century BCE.
The earliest writings in Punjabi belong to Nath Yogi era from 9th to 14th century.
The earliest writings in Punjabi belong to the Nath Yogi-era from 9th to 14th century.
The earliest written evidence of Sindhi as a language can be found in a translation of the Qur’an into Sindhi dating back to 883 A.D.
The early 2000s saw the arrival of progressive metal, progressive rock, and psychedelic rock with bands such as Entity Paradigm and Mizraab.
The early Harappan cultures were populated from Neolithic cultures, the earliest and best-known of which is named after Mehrgarh, in Balochistan, Pakistan.
The early Persian ghazals largely imitated the themes and form of the Arabian ghazal.
The early celebrations included elements of Sufi influence, with animal sacrifices and torchlight processions along with public sermons and a feast.
The early medieval period (642–1219 CE) witnessed the spread of Islam in the region.
The eastern part of the delta was even more independent and controlled by the Sumra tribe until 1053 AD, when the region was brought under the control of the Khalji Delhi Sultanate by Alauddin Khalji.
The economy of the delta consists of agriculture and fishing.
The edifice features a muqarna, an architectural feature from the Middle East that was first introduced into Mughal architecture with construction of the nearby and ornate Wazir Khan Mosque.
The education is based solely on cramming and the students lack professional as well as communicational skills, when they graduate from an institution.
The elder in turn reward them with candies, sweets, and small amounts of money.
The embellished wall stretches over much of the fort's northern and western walls and measures approximately 1,450 feet (440 m) by 50 feet (15 m).
The emergence of powerful civil society actors was unprecedented in Pakistani history.
The entire pastry is deep-fried in vegetable oil or (rarely) ghee until it achieves a golden-brown colour.
The entire production of the products includes both vegetable dyes and mineral dyes.
The entrance to the mosque lies on the western side of the rectangular Hazuri Bagh, and faces the famous Alamgiri Gate of the Lahore Fort, which is located on the eastern side of the Hazuri Bagh.
The equipped mobile units of the center can reach any part of the country to capture an event.
The estimated coastline of the Indus delta with the Arabian Sea (the maximum length in the direction of the coast) is approximated at 210 km (130 mi), 220 km, and 240 km (150 mi).
The estuaries in the Indus delta are spread across Sindh in Pakistan in the west and Gujarat in India in the east.
The ethnonym belongs in the endonymic category (i.e., it is a self-appellation).
The etymology of the word used in Urdu, for the most part, decides how polite or refined one's speech is.
The event featured live performances by renowned artists Ali Zafar, Shafqat Amanat Ali, and Sahir Ali Bagga, culminating in a spectacular fireworks display and a captivating light show.
The event is not only a religious observance but also a reflection of Yemen’s strong cultural and historical ties to the Prophet’s life and teachings.
The event, held from May 26 to 31, featured competitions on indoor rowing machines such as the Concept2 ergometer.
The events during the independence of Pakistan are depicted in many literary and scholarly works.
The events include folk music, dance, craft exhibition and other activities.
The evidence of sea trade and contact during the Harappan period is largely circumstantial, or derived from inferences from the Mesopotamian texts, as detailed above.
The evidence strongly points to natural causes.
The exact number of speakers is unavailable, but different estimates show that Pashto is the mother tongue of 45–60% of the total population of Afghanistan.
The exact origins of the Mawlid are difficult to trace.
The excavations of Mohen-Jo-Daro have unfolded the city life of a civilization of people with values, a distinct identity, and a distinct culture.
The expected revamp is followed by the initial first round in the shape of district club championships, which also served as club scrutiny of the elections of the Pakistan Football Federation in 2024.
The expenditure on education is around 2% of Pakistan's GDP.
The extensive architectural patronage of the Mughals was made possible by their considerable wealth, which exceeded that of other contemporary Muslim empires like the Ottomans and Safavids.
The exteriors of both were very often topped by large domes, and made extensive use of arches.
The fairs are arranged on the bank of a river or under a big banyan tree near the local bazaar.
The fashion industry has flourished in the changing environment of the fashion world.
The federation organizes the annual National Taekwondo Championship.
The federation was established in 1977 and granted affiliation by World Taekwondo.
The female Balochi suit consists of the head scarf, long dress and a shalwar.
The festival also includes folk music, dancing and a camping village is set up.
The festival is also observed as Lal Loi by the Sindhi community in India.
The festival is celebrated by lighting bonfires, eating festive food, dancing and collecting gifts.
The festival is celebrated in Delhi and Haryana but is not a gazetted holiday.
The festival is celebrated to honour the diversified culture of Balochistan.
The festival is gaining popularity among other Sindhis where Lohri is not a traditional festival.
The festival was held by PPP at the historic site, despite all the protest by both national and international historians and educators.
The festival was held in the Shalimar Gardens, until President Ayub Khan ordered against it in 1958.
The field measures about 200 meters by 56 meters (a regular polo field is about 270m by 150m), with 60 cm high stone walls running the length of the field on both sides instead of boards.
The fielders wear a green cap or a white (or green in ODI and T20 matches) sunhat, with the Pakistan Cricket Star in the middle.
The fifth Test match held at the ground took place in November 2011, as the third Test between Sri Lanka and Pakistan.
The fifth largest in the world, the Indus Delta is a designated wetland and Ramsar site, containing seventeen major creeks or estuaries and numerous minor creeks.
The figure has been interpreted by some scholars as a yogi, and by others as a three-headed "proto-Shiva" as "Lord of Animals".
The film Bin Roye was later adapted into a television series with the same name, that premiered on Hum TV on 2 October 2016.
The film Jinnah released in 1998 follows the story of Jinnah and details the events leading up to the independence of Pakistan.
The film became the first to complete a 75-week screening at cinemas throughout the country, thus attaining a platinum jubilee status.
The film collected over ₨2.65 crore (US$260,000) at the box office.
The film depicts events surrounding the war on terror in Pakistan, including the attack on a Police Academy in Lahore in 2009.
The film focuses on three eleven-year-old friends, who rise from the unlikeliest of places to save their community from the evils that plague it.
The film had a good number of public previews came out well on them collecting Rs.
The film industry by now was on the verge of collapse as people began turning away from cinema.
The film industry of Pakistan, consisting of motion pictures, has had a large effect on Pakistani society and culture since the nation's independence.
The film is said to have given birth to Pakistani pop music, by introducing playback singing legends like composer Sohail Rana and singer Ahmed Rushdi.
The film is set in a fictional town called Roshan Basti (town of light).
The film opened to a highly successful box office weekend and went on to run for several weeks, making it the third-highest-grossing film of 2016, earning Rs.22.50 crores in total.
The film remained mediocre in the cinema.
The film starred Humayun Saeed, Javed Shaikh and Noman Habib in the lead roles.
The film starred Javed Sheikh, Fahad Mustafa, Mohsin Abbas Haider with supporting cast of Urwa Hocane, Kubra Khan and Salman Shahid.
The film stayed in cinemas for over 400 weeks, with its last screening at the Scala in Karachi, where it ran for more than four years.
The film was a political drama exploring the subject of political corruption in Pakistan.
The film was about a dissociative identity disorder patient who uses black magic against unsuspecting relatives.
The film was also released internationally, including India, where it became the first Pakistani film released there after four decades.
The film was banned in Pakistan by the Federal Government on 27 April 2016 for endangering democracy.
The film was based on the original novel Bin Roye Ansoo by Farhat Ishtiaq and released worldwide on 18 18 July 2015, the day of Eid-ul-Fitr.
The film was only mildly successful at cinemas, but it managed to establish Lahore as a functioning center of a film industry.
The film was released on 8 April 2016 in cinemas across Pakistan.
The film was theatrically released ARY Films.
The final clause in the sentence has falling intonation.
The final match was between Poland and Holland, Poland won the tournament.
The final results showed the total population of Pakistan to be 207.684 million, a reduction of 68,738 people or 0.033% against provisional results.
The final test ended in a draw, resulting in Pakistan's first ever Test series win, with 2–0 margin.
The findings are later compiled in reports and then published in books, which are later sold by Lok Virsa and freely available at the Lok Virsa Library.
The fine intonational differences between different instances of the same swara are called srutis.
The first Indo-Scythian king Maues established Saka hegemony by conquering Indo-Greek territories.
The first National Games were held at Polo Ground, Karachi from 23 to 25 April 1948.
The first Pashto teaching text was written during the period of Ahmad Shah Durrani by Pir Mohammad Kakar with the title of Maʿrifat al-Afghānī ("The Knowledge of Afghani [Pashto]").
The first and third terraces are both shaped as squares, while the second terrace is a narrow rectangle.
The first attested Sindhi translation of the Quran was done by Akhund Azaz Allah Muttalawi (1747–1824) and published in Gujarat in 1870.
The first captain of the Pakistan national cricket team was Abdul Hafeez Kardar.
The first change was the adoption of the Takhallus, the practice of mentioning the poet's penname in the final couplet (called the 'maqta'').
The first collection of poetry in Balochi, Gulbang by Mir Gul Khan Nasir, was published in 1951 and incorporated the Arabic Script.
The first edition of European Kabaddi Championship was held in Scotland in 2019.
The first ever Pakistani-film produced was Teri Yaad, directed by Daud Chand in 1948.
The first ever international cricket match in Karachi was held on 22 November 1935 between Sindh and Australian cricket teams.
The first ever international cricket match in Karachi was held on 22 November 1935 between Sindh and an Australian XI.
The first film ever produced in Pakistan was Husn Ka Daku in 1929, directed by Abdur Rashid Kardar in Lahore.
The first four test went draw but the final match was thriller.
The first framework of rules for the sport was prepared in Maharashtra in the 1920s, with English sports serving as a model for this formalisation.
The first group match was with rivals India, which India won by 7 wickets.
The first historical reference to a fort at the site is from the 11th century during the rule of Mahmud of Ghazni.
The first international cricket match in what is now Pakistan today was held in Karachi on 22 November 1935 between Sindh and an Australian XI (see Figure 1).
The first is the 'populist' Sufism of the rural population.
The first known usage of the Sanskrit word is found in the Natya Shastra (~200 BCE), where it defines the regional varieties of folk performing arts, as opposed to the classical, pan-Indian margi.
The first major English writer to receive this national honour was Alamgir Hashmi.
The first major settlement at Taxila, in Hathial mound, was established around 1000 BCE.
The first mention of the Gandhārīs is attested once in the Ṛigveda as a tribe that has sheep with good wool.
The first modern accounts of the ruins of the Indus civilisation are those of Charles Masson, a deserter from the East India Company's army.
The first national census of Pakistan to gather data on the prevalence of Saraiki was the census of 1981.
The first novel of Mohammed Hanif, A Case of Exploding Mangoes (2008) was shortlisted for the 2008 Guardian First Book Award.
The first option includes 12 years of schooling.
The first over was bowled by Mohammad Amir.
The first printed works in Sindhi were produced at the Muhammadi Press in Bombay beginning in 1867.
The first season mainly featured live-recorded performances of pop and rock songs.
The first star was Gauhar Jan, whose career was born out of Fred Gaisberg's first recordings of Indian music in 1902.
The first step in introducing media laws in the country was done by the then military ruler and President Ayub Khan who promulgated the Press and Publication Ordinance (PPO) in 1962.
The first television station began broadcasting from Lahore on 26 November 1964.
The first three sites were listed in 1980, the Archaeological Ruins at Moenjodaro, Buddhist Ruins of Takht-i-Bahi and Neighbouring City Remains at Sahr-i-Bahlol, and Taxila.
The first to appear in print was by Muhammad Siddiq in 1867.
The first tour was by a Commonwealth XI in November and December 1949.
The first word comes from the triliteral root ضحى (ḍaḥḥā) with the associated meanings "immolate; offer up; sacrifice; victimize".
The first-ever Test match at Gaddafi Stadium (then Lahore Stadium) was played between Pakistan and Australia from 21–26 November 1959.
The five tonal plosives also become voiceless word-initially.
The flat-shaped samosa is called a somosa or somucha, and is usually filled with onions and minced meat.
The focus on cricket has overshadowed other sports, exacerbating the decline across various disciplines.
The folk music invokes the traditions and tells stories of agricultural life, love, and joy.
The following 76 pages are in this category, out of 76 total.
The following 8 pages are in this category, out of 8 total.
The following Latin-based alphabet was adopted by the International Workshop on "Balochi Roman Orthography" (University of Uppsala, Sweden, 28–30 May 2000).
The following Shahi rulers all resisted the Ghaznavids but were ultimately unsuccessful, resulting in the downfall of the empire in 1026 CE.
The following alphabet was used by Syed Zahoor Shah Hashmi in his lexicon of Balochi Sayad Ganj (سید گنج) (lit.
The following are some of the styles of shalwar kameez.
The following excerpts are translated from The History of India, as Told by Its Own Historians by Henry Miers Elliot.
The following is a list of Pakistani models.
The following is a list of notable Pakistani clothing companies and brands.
The following list includes the performance of all of Pakistan's national teams at major competitions.
The following list shows the official dates of Eid al-Adha for Saudi Arabia as announced by the Supreme Judicial Council.
The following table shows consonants which are common to both Western (Northern) and Southern Balochi.
The following table shows predicted dates and announced dates based on new moon sightings for Saudi Arabia.
The following table shows the number of Urdu speakers in some countries.
The following table will present these in detail.
The following year, Eveready Pictures was established by J.C. Anand, which would go on to become the largest film production and distribution company in Pakistan.
The food in this region is traditionally moderately spicy.
The forests also provide for ecotourism and wildlife conservation purposes.
The format of this poetry is the bayt, indicating significant influence from Arabic and Persian.
The former is used colloquially and has older Sanskrit origins; the latter is used formally and poetically, being of Persian origin.
The former is written is written round and zigzagged as "ہـ ـہـ ـہ ہ", and can impart the "h" (/ɦ/) sound anywhere in a word, or the long "a" or the "e" vowels (/ɑː/ or /eː/) at the end of a word.
The fort and the city had remained under the control of Ranjit Singh's family until the fall of the Sikh Empire in 1849.
The fort fell to the army of Ranjit Singh, who took Lahore from the Bhangi Misl in 1799.
The fort is located in the northern part of Lahore's old walled city.
The fort is surrounded by a high bastioned defensive wall which forms a rough parallelogram measuring 365x320 metres.
The fort was then captured by the Bhangi Misl, one of the 12 Sikh Misls of Punjab that ruled Lahore from 1765 until 1799.
The fort's Diwan-i-Aam was destroyed in 1841 when the son of Ranjit Singh, Sher Singh bombarded the fort in his fight against Chand Kaur.
The fort's Naag Temple and Loh temple were also constructed during Sikh rule, while the Mai Jindan Haveli was extensively modified.
The fort's northern outer wall, parallel to the picture wall, was constructed during this period.
The fort, along with the Mughal garden at Shalimar was designated as a World Heritage site by UNESCO in 1981.
The fortress is located at the northern end of the Walled City and is spread over an area greater than 20 hectares (49 acres).
The forts of Derawar and Umerkot were built by Rajput clans during the medieval era, and are examples of early Rajput architecture.
The foundation of this mosque was laid by the Empress Mariam-uz-Zamani in the year 1611.
The foundations of the modern fort was laid in 1566 ,during the reign of Emperor Akbar, in a syncretic architectural style that featured both Islamic and Hindu motifs.
The founder of the dynasty, Chandragupta Maurya, according to legends about his youth, had received an education in Taxila under Chanakya and later assumed control with his support.
The founding father of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, married Ratti Bai who belonged to a Parsi family before her conversion to Islam.
The four districts- Umerkot, Tharparkar, Mirpurkhas and Sanghar hosts more than half of the Hindu population in Pakistan.
The four unusual minarets are inspired by Turkish architecture.
The fourth Karachi Fashion Week was held in 2013 from January 27–29 .
The furnaces found at the site are believed to have been used for copperworks and melting the metals as opposed to smelting.
The game is decided in favour of the team scoring more goals.
The game is played with 20-minute halves with a 5-minute half time break in which the teams exchange sides.
The game is the most popular sport in the country with the tape ball variety of the game being the most common.
The gardens date from the period when the Mughal Empire was at its artistic and aesthetic zenith, and are now one of Pakistan's most popular tourist destinations.
The gardens date from the period when the Mughal Empire was at its artistic and aesthetic zenith.
The gardens were originally known as 'Farah Bakhsh' (فرح بخش; lit.
The gardens' design was influenced by the older Shalimar Gardens in Kashmir that were built by Shah Jahan's father, Emperor Jahangir.
The gate is one of Lahore's most iconic monuments, and once featured on Pakistani currency.
The gate of a fort Akbar designed at Agra exhibits the Assyrian gryphon, Indian elephants, and birds.
The gateway itself contains several chambers which are not accessible to the public.
The gender disparity has decreased comparatively rapidly at secondary school.
The gender disparity in enrollment at secondary level of education was 0.4 in 1990-91 and 0.67 in 1999–2000, showing that the disparity decreased by 67.5% in the decade.
The general consensus of Deobandi scholars have also declared Mawlid as an innovation and forbidden its celebration.
The genitive is a special form for the first and second-person singular, but formed as usual with the oblique and case marker جو जो jo for the rest.
The genome completely lacked the Western Steppe Herder-related ancestry that is found in modern (particularly in northern) South Asians, or any Anatolian Neolithic farmer ancestry.
The genre has adapted and evolved over time in response to shifting cultural norms and global influences.
The ghazal came into its own as a poetic genre during the Umayyad era (661–750) and continued to flower and develop in the early Abbasid era.
The ghazal form is ancient, tracing its origins to 7th-century Arabic poetry.
The ghazal has historically been one of the most popular poetic forms across the Middle East and South Asia.
The ghazal has undergone some simplification in recent years, in terms of words and phrasings, which helps it to reach a larger audience around the world.
The ghazal is a short poem consisting of rhyming couplets, called bayt or sher.
The ghazal is always written from the point of view of the unrequited lover whose beloved is portrayed as unattainable.
The ghazal later spread throughout the Middle East and South Asia.
The ghazal originated in Arabia in the 7th century, evolving from the qasida, a much older pre-Islamic Arabic poetic form.
The ghazal's beauty goes beyond rich or poor, or where you come from.
The ghazal's uniqueness arises from its rhyme and refrain rules, referred to as the 'qafiya' and 'radif' respectively.
The glottal fricative /ɦ/ is voiced and affects the voice quality of a preceding vowel.
The goal is to make sure every Muslim gets to eat meat.
The governing body for Kabaddi in Pakistan is Pakistan Kabaddi Federation.
The governing body for kabaddi in Pakistan is Pakistan Kabaddi Federation.
The governing body of polo in Pakistan is the Pakistan Polo Association.
The governing federation for kabaddi in India is the Amateur Kabaddi Federation of India (AKFI), which was founded in 1973 and compiled a standard set of rules.
The government felt that it was losing millions of rupees by not 'regulating' the mushrooming cable TV business.
The government forcibly closed most of the cinemas in Lahore.
The government's decision to open up the media sector allowed private television channels to operate openly, telecasting their own news, current affairs, and entertainment content.
The government-owned Pakistan Broadcasting Corporation (PBC) was formed on 14 August 1947, the day of Pakistani independence.
The grammar of Hindi and Urdu is shared, though formal Urdu makes more use of the Persian "-e-" izafat grammatical construct (as in Hammam-e-Qadimi, or Nishan-e-Haider) than does Hindi.
The granting of official status of Sindhi along with script reforms ushered in the development of modern Sindhi literature.
The grave also includes Anadara shells used as containers of lime, one of which still contained lime.
The great Indian musician Tansen sang in the dhrupad style.
The great Kushan ruler Kanishka later founded Sirsukh, the most recent of the ancient settlements at Taxila.
The great majority of examples of the Indus script are short groups of signs on seals.
The greatest poet of Sindhi was Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai (1689/1690–1752), whose verses were compiled into the Shah Jo Risalo by his followers.
The grid system determined the repeat patterns.
The grounds around the mosque have the capacity to contain up to 200,000 people.
The growing demand of popular programming for South Asians caused MTV to launch the desi-targeted television channel MTV Desi.
The hall was site of elaborate pageantry, with processions of up to one hour long occurring before each audience session.
The hat is also known as Khapol, derived from Kapaal which means head in Khowar.
The head scarf is also traditionally long but again, modern versions are shorter.
The head scarf is traditionally large, similar to the chador or phulkari that was used throughout the plains of the Punjab region.
The headquarters of PCKF is based in the Hayat Durrani Water Sports Academy at Hanna Lake Quetta, one of the major canoe / kayak paddling and Rowing center in Pakistan.
The headquarters of the Pakistan Cricket Board are situated at Gaddafi Stadium, thus making it the home of the Pakistan national cricket team.
The heavy rainfall in Bengal necessitated large roofed spaces, and the nine-domed mosque, which allowed a large area to be covered, was more popular there than anywhere else.
The high point of this era was reached with the culmination of the Gandhara style.
The high point of this era was the Gandhara style.
The highest annual rainfall ever is 1023.8 mm, recorded in 2022, and the lowest annual rainfall ever is 10 mm, recorded in 1987.
The highest football division in Pakistan is the Pakistan Premier League.
The highest football division in the country is the Pakistan Premier League.
The highest recorded temperature is 53.5 °C (128.3 °F), recorded in May 2010 and the lowest recorded temperature is −5.4 °C (22.3 °F), recorded in January 2006.
The highest terrace was reserved for the Emperor's harem.
The historian of South Indian food, Shri Bala, states that there is some evidence that rice was cooked in meat stock in South India.
The historic Kali Bari Hindu Temple has been rented out to a Muslim party in Dera Ismail Khan who converted the temple into a Hotel.
The historical Punjab region, now divided between India and Pakistan, is defined physiographically by the Indus River and these five tributaries.
The historical and holy sites of Sikhs are maintained by a Pakistani governmental body, the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee, which is responsible for their upkeep and preservation.
The historical inventory of names for the dialects now called Saraiki is a confusion of overlapping or conflicting ethnic, local, and regional designations.
The historical origin of the Saraiki implosives has been on the whole[f] the same as in Sindhi.
The history of Gandhara originates with the archaeological Gandhara grave culture, characterised by a distinctive burial practice, and Gandhara's mentions in the Vedic period literature.
The history of cricket in Pakistan predates the creation of the country in 1947.
The history of the Hindu Shahis begins in 843 CE with Kallar deposing the last Turk Shahi ruler, Lagaturman.
The hockey team also failed to qualify for the 2023 World Cup.
The holiday begins after the sighting of the new moon on Chand Raat.
The holiday is called عيد الأضحى (Eid-al-Adha) or العيد الكبير (Eid-al-Kabir) in Arabic.
The holiday is known under various other names in different languages and countries around the world.
The holiday is widely called Korité in Senegal and elsewhere across West Africa.
The hot steam cooks the chapati rapidly from the inside.
The housebuilding in some villages in the region still resembles in some respects the housebuilding of the Harappans.
The housing unit is known as a ghar, with Punjabi houses traditionally being further subdivided into three components: dlan (main-room), rasoi or chula chaunka (kitchen), and vchra (yard).
The hunt is over, and I hear the Call to Prayer fade into that of the wounded gazelle tonight.
The idea for a separate Muslim state in the northwest regions of South Asia was introduced by Allama Iqbal in his speech as the President of the Muslim League in December 1930.
The idea is for the selected person to act as a deterrent for people who refrain from giving Lohri items.
The idea of complete independence did not catch on until after World War I, when the British government reduced civil liberties with the Rowlatt Acts of 1919.
The imitation of Arabian forms in Persia extended to the qaṣīda, which was also popular in Persia.
The imperial kitchens of the Mughals were known for adapting and refining foreign dishes using indigenous ingredients and spices.
The importance of the khyal's content is for the singer to depict, through music in the set raga, the emotional significance of the khyal.
The important Qutb Complex in Delhi was begun under Muhammad of Ghor, by 1199, and continued under Qutb al-Din Aibak and later sultans.
The impress of the stay of these Arabs can still be recognised on the religion, culture and language of the Sindhi people.
The inaudible sound is said to be the principle of all manifestation, the basis of all existence.
The inaugural Kabaddi World Cup organised by the IKF was held in Kish Island, Iran, 11–14 November 2019.
The inaugural Yuva Kabaddi Series was conducted in Jaipur in June 2022, and was broadcast on OTT platform FanCode.
The inaugural edition of the IIPKL was on 13 May 2019 at Pune, India.
The inaugural edition of the Kabaddi Masters was held in Dubai, 22–30 June 2018.
The inaugural first-class match was played at NSK between Pakistan and India on 20–24 April 1955, and it became a fortress of Pakistan cricket.
The inaugural season features top international players from Thailand, Kenya, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.
The inauguration ceremony included performances showcasing Pakistan's culture, by famous artists; including Arif Lohar, Ali Zafar and Aima Baig.
The independence day is one of the six public holidays observed in Pakistan and is celebrated all across the country.
The independent state of Pakistan was established in 1947 following the Partition of India.
The indigenous movie industry, based in Lahore and known as "Lollywood", produces roughly forty feature-length films a year.
The industry was pronounced dead by the start of the new millennium.
The inhabitants of the Indus Valley Civilisation migrated from the river valleys of Indus and Ghaggar-Hakra, towards the Himalayan foothills of the Ganga-Yamuna basin.
The initiative to establish the television industry stemmed from the National Education Commission, backed by President Ayub Khan.
The intense guerrilla war in far Eastern Pakistan, followed by India's successful intervention led to the secession of Eastern contingent as Bangladesh.
The interior frescoes date mostly from the Sikh era, along with the entire upper level that was also added during the Sikh era.
The interior is simple and plain with the exception of ceilings that are decorated and designed in four different orders, two arcuate, and two trabeated.
The interior of the main tent-shaped hall is covered in white marble and decorated with mosaics and calligraphy by the famous Pakistani artist Sadequain, and a Turkish-style chandelier.
The interior of the mosque uses Turkish and Pakistani inspired decorations.
The issue of the correct date of the Mawlid is recorded by Ibn Khallikan as constituting the first proven disagreement concerning the celebration.
The justification was just as much a desire to counter the Indian media power, as it was a wish to set the media "free" with the rights that electronic media had in liberal, open societies.
The kameez can be of varying sleeve length, shirt length, and necklines.
The kameez can be sewn straight and flat, in an "A" shape design or flowing like a dress; there are a variety of styles.
The kameez is a long shirt or tunic, often seen with a Western-style collar; however, for female apparel, the term is now loosely applied to collarless or mandarin-collared kurtas.
The kameez is also loose, and traditionally is long, with long sleeves.
The kameez is usually cut straight and flat; older kameez use traditional cuts; modern kameez are more likely to have European-inspired set-in sleeves.
The kameez may be cut with a deep neckline, sewn in diaphanous fabrics, or styled in cap-sleeve or sleeveless designs.
The kameez may have a European-style collar, a Mandarin collar, or it may be collarless; in the latter case, its design as a women's garment is similar to a kurta.
The kameez might be worn with pyjamas as well, either for fashion or comfort.
The kebab is commonly consumed in meals with bread such as naan, rice dishes such as Kabuli pulao, or wrapped in fast food.
The kebabs can be fried shallow or deep in vegetable cooking oil over medium heat.
The king succumbed to her wiles, and, during the night, the king and all the inhabitants of the palace were eaten by the ogress and her companions.
The lack of importance given to Pashto and its neglect has caused growing resentment amongst Pashtuns.
The language also features four implosives.
The language has been relegated to informal communication, also as a means for crude humour, abuse, and to connect with uneducated masses.
The language is also geographically spread out of South Asia as it is spoken by the Sindhi diaspora, present around the world, primarily in the Gulf states, the Western world and the Far East.
The language is spoken among a significant overseas diaspora, particularly in Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
The language of Mansúra, Multán, and those parts is Arabic and Sindian.
The language of Sind is different than that of India.
The language of Urdu reached its pinnacle under the British Raj, and it received official status.
The language of instruction depends on the nature of the institution itself, whether it is an English-medium school or an Urdu-medium school.
The language of the Moors is different from that of the ancient original inhabitants of India but is obliged to these Gentiles for its characters.
The language of these compositions is morphologically closer to Shauraseni Apbhramsa, though vocabulary and rhythm is surcharged with extreme colloquialism and folklore.
The large interior has a central hypostyle space, and wide aisles with "transverse" arches springing from unusually low down (illustrated).
The largest Quranist organization in Pakistan is Ahle Quran, followed by Bazm-e-Tolu-e-Islam.
The largest numbers came from resident officers of the British Army and the government.
The last Greek king of Taxila was overthrown by the Indo-Scythian chief Maues around 90 BCE.
The last census recorded the 1981 population at 84.3 million, nearly double the 1961 figure of 42.9 million.
The last major series of excavations were conducted in 1964 and 1965 by George F. Dales.
The last time an international cricket match was played at the venue in Karachi was in February 2009, when Sri Lanka toured Pakistan.
The late Zahida Parveen was a master of kafi singing.
The latest landmark for Pakistan rugby is that universities like Lahore University of Management and Sciences (LUMS) and Bahria University Islamabad have formed teams as well.
The latest research shows that Indus Valley people migrated from villages to cities.
The latter also spearheaded Stuckism in Pakistan.
The latter either built during Jahangir's or Shah Jahan's era was the hallmark of Mughals.
The latter four are only geminated in loan words from other languages.
The latter is written in Arabic Naskh style (as a loop) (ھ), in order to be used in digraphs and to create the aspirate consonants.
The latter rivaled the engineering skill of the Romans some 2,000 years later.
The law does not permit foreigners to obtain a 'Declaration' to run a news agency or any media station.
The law empowered the authorities to confiscate newspapers, close down news providers, and arrest journalists.
The laws are, however, detrimental to democracy reform, and represent a potential threat to the future of Pakistan and democracy.
The league had an "amateurish" setup according to critics, which they claimed did not allow players to develop to the level they were capable of.
The league has remained inactive since the 2018–19 season.
The league modeled its business upon that of the Indian Premier League of Twenty20 cricket, with a large focus on marketing, the backing of local broadcaster Star Sports.
The league was suspended in 2015 due to the Pakistan Football Federation crisis, until the lift on suspension by FIFA on 13 March 2018.
The legs are wide at the top, and narrow at the ankle.
The length of the total delta along the axis of Indus is estimated at 240 km (150 mi), whereas the current delta stretches from the Arabian Sea to just south of Thatta (~100 km or 62 mi).
The letter hāʾ is also used in Sindhi to represent the sound [h] in native Sindhi words, in Arabic and Persian loanwords, and to represent vowels (/ə/ or /əʰ/) at the end of the word.
The letters with diacritics are the long vowels, the post-alveolar or retroflex consonants, and the voiced velar or voiceless alveolar fricatives.
The liberalisation not only transformed the television landscape but also played a crucial role in shaping public discourse and access to information.
The liberalisation of the electronic media in 2002 was coupled to a bulk of regulations.
The library is devoted to serve students, researchers and scholars in connection with their research work on cultural heritage of Pakistan, as well as the general public.
The library provides valuable intangible benefits as a source of national, regional, and local identity.
The lighting of bonfires during this winter festival is an ancient tradition.
The lineage of Anu gave rise to the Madra, Kekaya, Sivi and Uśīnara kingdoms, while the Druhyu tribe has been associated with the Gandhara kingdom.
The listener must only listen to everything in the remembrance of Allah.
The lively colours of Pakistani trucks have inspired some fashion designers.
The living legends of this gharana is Pt.
The living style of the different areas of Pakistan is exhibited here in statues, pictures, pottery, music and textile work.
The local cuisine of Punjab is heavily influenced by the agriculture and farming lifestyle prevalent from the times of the ancient Indus Valley civilization.
The local dialect of Lahore is the Majhi dialect of Punjabi, which has long been the basis of standard literary Punjabi.
The local government always fails to assign caretakers and priests at temples.
The local population celebrate in various ways such as by partying, eating and singing.
The location of Mohenjo-daro was built in a relatively short period of time, with the water supply system and wells being some of the first planned constructions.
The longest recorded commercially released qawwali runs slightly over 115 minutes (Hashr Ke Roz Yeh Poochhunga by Aziz Mian Qawwal).
The lost city of Taxila, however, was not identified until later, in 1863-64.
The love may be directed to either a man or a woman.
The lover is aware and resigned to this fate but continues loving nonetheless; the lyrical impetus of the poem derives from this tension.
The lower portion under the stands was enclosed and converted to shops for boutiques and offices.
The lunar calendar is approximately eleven days shorter than the solar calendar.
The lyrics are primarily in older, more rural Hindi dialects such as Brij Bhasha, Awadhi, and Bhojpuri.
The lyrics of the national anthem of Afghanistan are in Pashto.
The lyrics, some of which were written in Sanskrit centuries ago, are presently often sung in brajbhasha, a medieval form of North and East Indian languages that were spoken in Eastern India.
The main Independence Day ceremony takes place in Islamabad, where the national flag is hoisted at the Presidential and Parliament buildings.
The main Iranian contributor to Brahui vocabulary, Balochi, is a Northwestern Iranian language, and moved to the area from the west only around 1000 AD.
The main areas have the capacity to hold up to 74000 people in the main areas including the inner hall, and the courtyards.
The main building of the mosque also features an additional four smaller minarets at each corner of the building.
The main building's pavilion has been renamed the Jinnah End, while the far-end Pavilion is now called the Iqbal End.
The main celebration is held in Islamabad, the capital of Pakistan.
The main edifice at the site was also built from red sandstone, and is decorated with white marble inlay.
The main entrance is double storied, projecting out of the facade to create a kind of porch leading into a recessed entrance with a balcony.
The main ideas and themes of garden tombs had already been explored by earlier Mughal emperors, and this was the culmination of all those previous works into a national landmark.
The main mosque (1367) in the large Kalaburagi Fort or citadel is unusual in having no courtyard.
The main reasons of deforestation are urbanization, farming, overgrazing, and tourism development.
The main religious buildings were the huge Jama Masjid and small Tomb of Salim Chisti.
The main ruins of Taxila include four major cities, each belonging to a distinct time period, at three different sites.
The main source of production is Chitral in Pakistan.
The main structure of the building is the main prayer hall, which is supported by four concrete girders.
The main temple is roughly 15 to 20 metres tall, and has three stories, with stairwells leading to inner ambulatories.
The main varieties of Balochi are Eastern (Soleimani), Southern (Makrani) and Western (Rakhshani).
The major architectural styles popular in the past were Temple, Indo-Islamic, Mughal and Indo-Saracenic architecture, all of which have many regional varieties.
The major goals of TVET include investing in the country's workforce to stimulate the economy and redistribute the wealth.
The major part of Agra fort was commissioned by Akbar from 1565 to 1574.
The major vocal forms or styles associated with Hindustani classical music are dhrupad, khyal, and tarana.
The majority are Sunni (85–90%) while Shias make up around 10-15%.
The majority are Sunni (estimated at 85–90%), with an estimated 5–10% Shia.
The majority of Muhajirs are settled in Sindh mainly in Karachi and Hyderabad.
The majority of Pakistan's Christians are members of the Catholic Church or the Church of Pakistan, with the remainder belonging to other Protestant groups.
The majority of Pakistan's languages belong to the Indo-Iranian group of the Indo-European language family.
The majority of Sunnis follow the Hanafi school of jurisprudence while a minority belongs to the Ahl-i Hadith school of thought.
The majority of the Pakistani Christian community consists of Punjabis who converted during the British colonial era and their descendants.
The majority of the Pakistani Muslims belong to Sunni Islam.
The majority of the Sikhs and Hindus of West Punjab and Sindh provinces of Pakistan migrated to India after the independence of Pakistan in 1947, with a small community of the Sikhs remaining.
The majority of the discovered brick constructions are public buildings such as bath houses and workshops.
The majority of them were born in Pakistan within the last four decades and mostly belong to the Pashtun ethnic group.
The manner of its use is that before eating it one takes areca nut; this is like a nutmeg but is broken up until it is reduced to small pellets, and one places these in his mouth and chews them.
The marble shades of the pavilion are capped with merlons to hide the view from the grounds.
The margin of victory was the largest in an ICC tournament final.
The markets and shopping malls become overwhelmed with people.
The massive entrance and mosque are situated on a plinth, which is ascended by a flight of 22 steps at the mosque's main gate which.
The match against Bangladesh was a comfortable win by 50 runs.
The match gained a lot of attraction due to the on-field rivalry between Australian all-rounder, Shane Watson and Pakistani pacer, Wahab Riaz.
The match is seen as the emergence of Inzamam onto the international stage.
The match was seen by 5,000 Karachiites.
The match was the final ODI for Pakistani's captain Misbah-ul-Haq and experienced all-rounder Shahid Afridi.
The match was the first major cricket event since 2009 in the port city and it was highly welcomed by crowds and the stadium witnessed packed house for the big game.
The match was turned towards Sri Lanka with magical spell by Rangana Herath, who took wickets of Mohammad Hafeez, Shahid Afridi and Shoaib Malik.
The material is thick cloth with a very wide shalwar to protect against the hot winds of the dry Sulaiman Range and Kharan Desert.
The material traditionally used for the Bahawalpuri shalwar and suthan is known as Sufi which is a mixture of cotton warp mixed with silk weft and gold threads running down the material.
The materials from secular buildings were recycled by builders in later periods.
The mature phase of earlier village cultures is represented by Rehman Dheri and Amri in Pakistan.
The mature phase of the Harappan civilisation lasted from c. 2600–1900 BCE.
The mausoleum, constructed by Akbar as a mark of his respect for the Sufi saint, who foretold the birth of his son.
The meat dishes in Pakistan include beef, mutton, poultry and seafood dishes.
The meat is usually cut in 3 cm cubes and cooked in a stew.
The meat samosa contains minced meat (lamb, beef, or chicken) and is popular as a snack food in Pakistan.
The media became an important actor in the process that led to fall of Musharraf and his regime.
The media in Pakistan dates back to pre-partition years of British India, where a number of newspapers were established to promote a communalistic or partition agenda.
The medieval developments of the classical Indian dance and music led to the introduction of desi gharanas, in addition to the classical gharanas codified in Natya Shastra.
The melodic foundations are called ragas.
The messages on the seals have proved to be too short to be decoded by a computer.
The middle class neglected the 'increasingly dilapidated and rowdy cinemas'.
The middle terrace was the Emperor's Garden, and contained the most elaborate waterworks of any Mughal garden.
The military thought it could still control the media and harness it if it strayed from what the regime believed was in the national interest - and in accordance with its own political agenda.
The modern equivalent of the loose Punjabi suthan are the cowl pants and dhoti shalwars which have many folds.
The modern variant of Pakol originated from Chitral.
The monastic complex called Takht-i-Bahi is located in the Mardan district.
The monk Marananta set out from what is now northwest Pakistan to cross China and spread Buddhism in the Korean peninsula during the 4th century.
The monumental Picture Wall is a large section of the outer wall which is exquisitely decorated with a vibrant array of glazed tile, faience mosaics, and frescoes.
The mosaic pattern adorns the west wall and has the Kalimah written in early Kufic script, repeated in mirror image pattern.
The mosque can accommodate 10,000 worshippers in the prayer hall.
The mosque can accommodate about 300,000 worshippers.
The mosque commissioned by Shah Jahan, who bestowed it to the city as a token of gratitude.
The mosque grounds along with being a building for prayer also used to house the International Islamic University some years ago but has since relocated to a new campus in 2000.
The mosque has been under extensive restoration since 2009 under the direction of the Aga Khan Trust for Culture and the Government of Punjab.
The mosque has three marble domes, the largest of which is located in the centre of the mosque, and which is flanked by two smaller domes.
The mosque is adjacent to the Lahore Fort and is the last in the series of congregational mosques in red sandstone.
The mosque is also located next to the Roshnai Gate, one of the original thirteen gates of Lahore, which is located to the southern side of the Hazuri Bagh.
The mosque is an important example of the Mughal architecture, with an exterior that is decorated with carved red sandstone with marble inlay.
The mosque is an important religious as well as social institution in Pakistan.
The mosque is located adjacent to the Walled City of Lahore.
The mosque is visible from miles away and sits on a higher surface compared to the main city.
The mosque rises above its surroundings because the tahkhana or underground rooms of the mosque are above grade.
The mosque still houses a library, lecture hall, museum, and cafe.
The mosque takes an unusual route to its design by combining contemporary and classic Islamic architecture.
The mosque was built between 1611 and 1614 during the reign of Mughal Emperor Jahangir, commissioned by his mother, Mariam-Uz-Zamani, and is Lahore's earliest dated Mughal-era mosque.
The mosque was built in Atish Khan Mahalla by order of Khan Mohammad Mridha under the instruction of Qadi Ibadullah in 1706 CE.
The mosque was built to commemorate Aurangzeb's military campaigns in southern India, in particular against the Maratha ruler Shivaji.
The mosque was commissioned in 1671, with construction overseen by the Emperor's foster brother, and governor of Lahore, Muzaffar Hussein — also known by his title Fidai Khan Koka.
The mosque would later influence construction of the larger Wazir Khan Mosque a few decades later.
The mosque's full name "Masjid Abul Zafar Muhy-ud-Din Mohammad Alamgir Badshah Ghazi" is written in inlaid marble above the vaulted entrance.
The mosque's gateway faces east towards the Alamgiri Gate of the Lahore Fort, which was also commissioned by Aurangzeb.
The most celebrated of these is the Mawlid of Süleyman Çelebi.
The most common configuration of the quid combines areca nut with slaked lime (usually made from heating crushed sea-shells) and betel leaves (tambul or siri).
The most common greeting is Akhtar mo Mubarak sha (Eid Mubarak) in the Pashto-speaking community.
The most commonly observed pattern in Ajrak blocks and hence the fabric is dots between two lines, these dots are of the same radius in almost all the designs.
The most commonly used classifies the Indus Valley Civilisation into Early, Mature and Late Harappan Phase.
The most important building from this era still standing is the tomb of Shah Rukn-i-Alam in Multan.
The most important centre for worship of Valmikis in Pakistan is Valmiki Mandir in Lahore.
The most important characteristic of this style is the Iwan, walled on three sides, with one end entirely open.
The most important of the few completely discovered buildings of Islamic architecture is the tomb of the Shah Rukn-i-Alam (built 1320 to 1324) in Multan.
The most influential musician of the Delhi Sultanate period was Amir Khusrau (1253–1325), a composer in Persian, Turkish and Arabic, as well as Braj Bhasha.
The most monumental and elaborate Mughal structures were royal mausoleums, deliberately designed to show off the power and sophistication of their patrons.
The most notable Muslim Sufi orders in Pakistan are the Qadiriyya, Naqshbandiya, Chishtiya and Suhrawardiyya silsas (Muslim Orders) and they have a large amount of devotees in Pakistan.
The most notable example is Raja Man Singh, a Hindu amir who commissioned both Hindu temples and Muslim mosques and shrines.
The most popular versions are the ones made with rice and vermicelli (semiya).
The most prominent Parsis of Pakistan today include Ardeshir Cowasjee, Byram Dinshawji Avari, Jamsheed Marker, as well as Minocher Bhandara.
The movement was led by the All-India Muslim League under the leadership of Muhammad Ali Jinnah.
The museum consists of several buildings as well as an outdoor museum which can accommodate up to 3000 visitors showcasing the living cultures of Pakistan.
The museum covers an area of 20,000 square feet, and in 2004, underwent renovations and was renamed.
The museum depicts ancient civilizations, the freedom struggle of Pakistan, the birth of Pakistan and major achievements of the country.
The museum is open from 10:00 am to 7:00 pm from Sunday to Thursday and Saturday.
The museum opened in 1974 and became an autonomous institute in 2002 following the Lok Virsa Legal Status Ordinance, 2002.
The museum showcases Pakistan's multicultural society by displaying history and living traditions of the various ethnic groups of Pakistan from all corners of the country.
The mystic poetry of the Sufi saints is usually sung in this mode.
The name "Sindhi" is derived from Sindhu, the original name of the Indus River.
The name "Sindhi" is derived from the Sanskrit síndhu, the original name of the Indus River, along whose delta Sindhi is spoken.
The name Urdu was first introduced by the poet Ghulam Hamadani Mushafi around 1780.
The name Urdu was first used by the poet Ghulam Hamadani Mushafi around 1780 for the language, even though he himself also used Hindavi term in his poetry to define the language.
The name chapli may be derived from the Pashto word chaprikh/chapdikh/chapleet, meaning "flat" – alluding to the kebab's light, round and flattened texture.
The name nihari originates from Arabic nahâr (نهار), meaning "morning"; it was originally eaten by nawabs in the Mughal Empire as a breakfast course following Fajr prayer.
The name of the region was introduced by the Turko-Persian conquerors of South Asia and was a translation of the Sanskrit name, Panchanada, which means 'Land of the Five Rivers'.
The names of the Jatis reflect regional origins, for example Andhri and Oudichya.
The names of variants are often based on their region or city of origin.
The nation came into existence as a result of the Pakistan Movement, which aimed for the creation of an independent Muslim state in the north-western regions of British India via partition.
The nation would make its first badminton debut in the Olympics when national player Mahoor Shahzad represented the country in the women's singles discipline.
The national census of Pakistan has tabulated the prevalence of Saraiki speakers since 1981.
The national cricket team of Pakistan is governed by the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) - a permanent member of the International Cricket Council (ICC).
The national dress of Pakistan is the Persian origin shalwar kameez, a unisex garment widely-worn around South Asia, and national dress, of Pakistan.
The national poet of Pakistan, Muhammad Iqbal, wrote poetry in Urdu and Persian.
The national team was established in 1953.
The natural flow of water and fertile sediments from Indus river into the delta has been impeded due to the construction of dams along the river.
The nature of Pakistani literature soon after independence aroused controversy among writers due to its being centred heavily on the negative events related to the independence movement.
The nature of the ghazals also changed to meet the demands of musical presentation, becoming briefer in length.
The nearest airport to Taxila is Islamabad International Airport located 36.5 kilometers away.
The necklace has an S-shaped clasp with seven strands, each over 4 ft long, of bronze-metal bead-like nuggets which connect each arm of the "S" in filigree.
The necklace weighs about 250 grams in total, and is presently held in a private collection in India.
The necropolis at Makli gives a good example of Sindhi architecture.
The need to express these strong emotional aesthetics makes Thumri and Kathak a perfect match, which, before Thumri became a solo form, were performed together.
The new Pakistani authorities requested the return of the Harappan pieces excavated on their territory, but the Indian authorities refused.
The new Pakistani authorities requested the return of the Mohenjo-daro pieces excavated on their territory, but the Indian authorities refused.
The new pitch lighting Signify system replaces 392 conventional metal Halide floodlights with 176 LED floodlights, allowing for energy conservation.
The new structure also consisted of corresponding second XI, under-19, under-16 and under-13 competitions, and live television coverage of top level matches.
The newfound freedom and autonomy provided to private broadcasters paved the way for innovative and varied content, reflecting the rich culture of the nation.
The newspaper Dawn, founded by Muhammad Ali Jinnah and first published in 1941, was dedicated to promoting for an independent Pakistan.
The next best is the Sanchi paan grown in Chittagong hill tracts.
The next match was against Australia, where Pakistan scored 191/5 with brilliant batting of Umar Akmal.
The next occurrence of this will be in 2033.
The next three tests went in West Indies' favour before Pakistan won their first match against them by an innings and 1 run.
The next was taken by Wasim Akram of Pakistan against Sri Lanka, 6 March 1999, and the third by Mohammad Sami of Pakistan against Sri Lanka.
The night before Eid, the whole household partakes in cleaning the house and yard and setting out the finest bedsheets, table cloths, and decorations.
The night before Hari Raya is filled with the sounds of takbir in the mosques or musallas.
The night of 14–15 August 1947 coincided with 27 Ramadan 1366 of the Islamic calendar, which Muslims regard as a sacred night.
The night on which the moon is sighted is celebrated as Chand Raat in countries like Bangladesh.
The normal word order is subject–object–verb.
The notations and conventions in Sindhi are different from either Persian or Arabic and from Urdu.
The number of Buddhist voters was 1,884 in 2017 and are mostly concentrated in Sindh and Punjab.
The number of madrassas are popular among Pakistan's poorest families in part because they feed and house their students.
The number of national Assembly seats were increased from 207 in 1997, to 332 in 2002.
The occurrence of this consonant in the word pakora has given rise to two common alternative spellings in English: pakoda, which reflects its etymology, and pakora, which reflects its phonology.
The office for this joint committee was opened in Delhi, Vice-Chancellor of Andhra University M. Rahnasamy served as president and B.L.
The official languages of Jammu and Kashmir are Koshur, Dogri, Hindi-Urdu and English.
The official number of Hindus living in Pakistan is about 4.5 million or approx.
The official religion of Pakistan is Islam, as enshrined by Article 2 of the Constitution, and is practised by an overwhelming majority of 96.35% of the country's population.
The older men might do those simple designs as well, but it is not that common.
The older ten rupee notes of the Pakistani rupee included background images of the remains of Mohenjo-daro and Harappa.
The older women while applying it too, don't do very complicated designs.
The oldest evidence of betel nut chewing is found in a burial pit in the Duyong Cave site of the Philippines, an area where areca palms were native, dated to around 4,630±250 BP.
The oldest unequivocal evidence of betel chewing is from the Philippines.
The once romantic and lovable image of Pakistani cinema in the 1960s and 1970s had transformed into a culture of violence and vulgarity by the 1980s.
The one in Peshawar still exists, although the building is not being used for any religious purpose.
The only functional Buddhist temple in Pakistan is in the Diplomatic Enclave at Islamabad, used by Buddhist diplomats from countries like Sri Lanka.
The only two official languages in Pakistan are Urdu and English.
The opening of the media market led to the mushrooming of satellite channels in Pakistan.
The opening to the Haramsara is from the Khwabgah side separated by a row of cloisters.
The organisers of the Pro Kabaddi League change the sport's rules and its presentation to make it more suitable for a television audience.
The origin of Haleem lies in the popular Arabian dish known as Harees (also written as Jareesh).
The origin of Khyal is controversial, although it is accepted that this style was based on dhrupad and influenced by other musical traditions.
The origin of football in Pakistan can be traced back to the mid-nineteenth century when the game was introduced during the British Raj.
The origin of the word "Brahui" is uncertain.
The original entrance faces the Maryam Zamani Mosque and the larger Alamgiri gate opens towards Hazuri Bagh through the majestic Badshahi mosque.
The origins of the term refer merely to the speakers of Indo-Aryan languages rather than to any particular ethnic group.
The ornate white marble pavilion's walls are decorated with frescoes and are inlaid with pietra dura and complex mirror-work known as Āina-kāri.
The orthography of the letter hāʾ in Sindhi, especially as it comes to typing as opposed to handwriting, has been a source of confusion for many.
The other agencies was pushed into severe crisis and had to seek financial support from the government.
The other games in the series were played at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium, Abu Dhabi and Dubai International Cricket Stadium.
The other important food item of Lohri is radish which can be harvested between October and January.
The other name for these types of mixed cloth is shuja khani.
The other options range from 14 to 16 years of schooling.
The outcomes of the war played a crucial role in the civil society.
The outfit in Jammu is the Dogri kurta and suthan.
The outfit is also popular in Afghanistan, where it is called the Punjabi.
The overall educational content was found to marginalize minorities, reinforce traditional gender roles, and promote ideological narratives.
The pakol (Urdu: پکول; Shina and Khowar: پاکول) is a traditional soft, flat, rolled-up and round-topped cap worn in Pakistan and eastern Afghanistan.
The pakol has a very recent history in Nuristan, going back no older than the late nineteenth century, where it was introduced from Chitral, although it is widely worn there nowadays.
The pakol has become popular in other parts of India, such as in Delhi, where it is sold by Afghans living in India.
The pakol has traditionally been worn in India by the Shina people of northern Jammu and Kashmir's Gurez Valley and Tulail Valley, as well as in Ladakh's Dras Valley.
The pakol was also connected to the Greco-Bactrian and Indo-Greek kingdoms of the ensuing centuries.
The palace is a labyrinth of chambers that date from the Shah Jahan period.
The palace's flooring system also helped cool the space - its floors were made of two layers that were separated by a layer of water pumped in from the Ravi River.
The palatal stops are here somewhat arbitrarily represented with [tʃ] and [dʒ].
The partnership between Steve Smith and Glenn Maxwell allowed Australia to win the match.
The pavilion is the most significant of the Jahangir-era additions to the Lahore Fort.
The pavilion served as inspiration for Rudyard Kipling, who named his Vermont home Naulakha in honour of the pavilion.
The people across Sindh exchange gifts of Ajrak and Topi at various ceremonies.
The people of the Indus civilisation achieved great accuracy in measuring length, mass, and time.
The percentage of Pakistan's area that is forest is disputed.
The performance incorporates various musical instruments alongside hand clapping by the singers.
The performers sit cross-legged on the ground in two rows — the lead singer, side singers and harmonium players in the front row, and the chorus and percussionists in the back row.
The period is described as the "golden age of Persian literature in Bengal".
The peripheral vowels have nasal analogues.
The personal pronouns are listed to the right.
The phoneme /j/ is very fluid in Punjabi.
The plain voiced /ɖ/ and the implosive /ᶑ/ are mostly in complementary distribution although there are a few minimal pairs, like /ɖakʈəɾ/ 'doctor' ~ /ᶑak/ 'mail'.
The plant is capable of providing 40 gallons of drinking water every day.
The playback singer Ahmed Rushdi's career also began during this period, after singing his first song in Bander Road Se Kemari.
The plinth and door frames are made of marble with a curvilinear roof.
The plosives /t/ and /d/ are dental in both dialects.
The pocket-sized food item was a readily available snack for workers and travelers across Central and South Asia.
The poetry of Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai and Sachal Sarmast is very famous throughout Sindh.
The policy document is blank on this question and does not discuss the assumptions that form the basis of this target.
The polo tournament is featured in the first episode of Himalaya with Michael Palin.
The polo tournament is played between the teams of Gilgit Baltistan and Chitral, under freestyle rules.
The pool measures 12 metres (39 ft) long, 7 metres (23 ft) wide and 2.4 metres (7.9 ft) deep.
The popularity of Punjabi suits in India was extentuated during the 1960s through Hindi cinema.
The popularity of ghazals in a particular region was usually preceded by a spread of the Arabic language in that country.
The population of the active part of the delta was estimated at 900,000 in 2003.
The population of the delta was estimated at 900,000 in 2003 (the total population of Indus River Delta-Arabian Sea mangroves was 1.2 million).
The population suffers from the lack of health facilities and medical staff.
The position of Ibn Taymiyya (1263–1328) on the Mawlid has been mixed.
The possessor precedes the possessed in the genitive construction, and adjectives come before the nouns they modify.
The possible solution would be low-cost private schools or LCPSs which may correct the prevailing gender inequalities in Pakistan.
The postpositions are divided into case markers, which directly follow the noun, and complex postpositions, which combine with a case marker (usually the genitive جو‎ जो jo).
The postpositions with the suffix -o decline in gender and number to agree with their governor, e.g.
The pottery of the Late Harappan period is described as "showing some continuity with mature Harappan pottery traditions", but also distinctive differences.
The power then transferred to the Talpurs until the British East India Company conquered them in 1839.
The practice also diffused to the cultures the Austronesians had historical contact with.
The practice is widespread in Southeast Asia, Micronesia, Island Melanesia, and South Asia.
The practice of betel nut chewing originates from Southeast Asia where the plant ingredients are native.
The practice only survives among more remote ethnic groups like the Cordillerans of Luzon, and the Lumad and Moro people of Mindanao.
The prayer chamber has a central arched niche with five niches flanking it which are about one third the size of the central niche.
The prayer hall consisted of a wide vaulted hall fronted by an arcade of monumental arches, with the central archway consisting of a larger iwan rising above the others.
The prayer starts by doing niyyah "intention" for the prayer before the takbir is said by the imam.
The prayer starts with the Niyyat followed by five Takbirs.
The precursor stage of Punjabi between the 10th and 16th centuries is termed 'Old Punjabi', whilst the stage between the 16th and 19th centuries is termed as 'Medieval Punjabi'.
The predominantly Muslim population supported Muslim League and Partition of India.
The preeminence of Urdu in both broadcasting and the Lollywood film industry is seen by critics as being detrimental to the health of the language.
The preparation for Eid in Bangladesh starts from the last quarter of the holy month of Ramadan.
The preparation is not swallowed but is spat out after chewing.
The presence of Pakistani Buddhists in modern Pakistan is unclear, although a few Pakistanis have reported themselves as Buddhist.
The present Balochi shalwar kameez replaced the earlier version which consisted of a robe to the ankles and a shalwar using cloth of up to 40 yards.
The present Christian population in Pakistan is ranged between 2 and 3 million as per as recent (2020–21) year estimation by various institution and NGOs of Pakistan.
The present design and structure of the fort trace its origins to 1566 when the Mughal Emperor Akbar occupied the site as a post to guard the northwest frontier of the empire.
The present extent of the meaning of Sirāikī is a recent development, and the term most probably gained its currency during the nationalist movement of the 1960s.
The present name was first used for them by the historians of Nader Shah, in the form of 'Shola-i-Mah' (شعلہ ماہ; lit.
The present-day Sindh, along with the Northern part of the Indus Valley Civilization (around 3000 to 2500 BC), is located in its urban civilization.
The president of the Muslim League, Chaudhry Khaliquzzaman, announced that Pakistan would bring together all Muslim countries into Islamistan-a pan-Islamic entity.
The primary regulatory agency for the development and promotion of the language is the Sindhi Language Authority, an autonomous institution of the government of Sindh.
The primary stronghold among the Asvakas, Massaga, characterised as strongly fortified by Quintus Curtius Rufus, became a focal point.
The process of teaching was critical and thorough- unless one unit was mastered completely, the student was not allowed to proceed to the next.
The production increased especially starting with the Kot Diji Phase, but the Early Harappan groups were already well acquainted with copper metallurgy.
The program will include events and opportunities to experience U.S. life, showcasing its diversity.
The programs are organised alphabetically.
The project was approved with some minor changes (қ, ꝑ, and ы were removed due to the rarity of those sounds in Balochi, and о̄ was added).
The project was managed by Khalilullah Khan, a noble of Shah Jahan's court, in cooperation with and Mulla Alaul Maulk Tuni.
The project was said to be completed by 25 December 2024, however, the deadline was moved forward by a month due to minor unfinished work.
The proliferation of the media in Pakistan since 2002 has brought a massive increase in the number of domestic and foreign journalists operating in Pakistan.
The prominent urban centres within this geographical scope were Taxila and Pushkalavati.
The protected areas serve the purpose of conserving the forests and wildlife of Pakistan.
The province of Punjab has the largest population of Christians in the country.
The public was invited to join the celebrations with free entry, marking a significant milestone in Pakistan's cricketing history.
The punctuation of Sindhi Perso-Arabic script differs slightly from that of Urdu, Persian, and Arabic.
The purpose of the citadel remains debated.
The qawwali maestro Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan has at least two songs that are more than 60 minutes long.
The quadrangle's layout differs from other Mughal quadrangles which are based upon the layout of a Persian paradise garden and instead is formed by concentric rectangles with a fountain in its centre.
The quadrilateral garden is divided by walkways or flowing water into four smaller parts.
The quarterfinal match of Pakistan was against Australia.
The ragas that exist today were categorized according to this scheme, although there are some inconsistencies and ambiguities in Bhatkande's system.
The ragas to which ghazals are sung are usually chosen to be in consonance with their lyrical content.
The raider must cross the baulk line into the defending team's territory, and then return to their half of the field without being tackled.
The rate of oral cancer has grown substantially in Pakistan due to chewing of paan.
The realisation of the alveolar tap /ɾ/ varies with the phonetic environment.
The rebuilt fort was destroyed in 1398 by the invading forces of Timur, only to be rebuilt by Mubarak Shah Sayyid in 1421.
The recognition of the Hindi script as an official script of courts in North India in 1900 was a key juncture in the evolution of Hindi-based language nationalism.
The red sandstone Red Fort is noted for its special buildings-Diwan-i-Aam and Diwan-i-Khas.
The red sandstone of the walls contrasts with the white marble of the domes and the subtle intarsia decoration.
The red stain generated by the combination of ingredients when chewed are known to make a colourful stain on the ground.
The reduction of freshwater due to the dams also increases salinity, making the waters of the delta unsuitable for the freshwater species.
The regime also banned music for reasons such as "endorsing alcohol consumption" if lyrics mentioned alcohol, or "obscenity" if a male and female were shown standing close or dancing.
The region around Taxila was settled by the Neolithic era, with some ruins at Taxila dating to 1000 BCE.
The region became predominantly Muslim during the rule of Delhi Sultanate and later Mughal Empire.
The region continued under Achaemenid suzerainty under the reign of Xerxes I, and continued under Achaemenid rule for over a century.
The region has a number of surviving Buddhist archaeological sites, including the Manthal Buddha Rock—a rock relief of the Buddha at the edge of the village (near Skardu)—and the Sacred Rock of Hunza.
The region of Balochistan is believed to have been a stronghold of Zoroastrianism before the advent of Islam.
The region of Saraikistan is renowned for its Sufi heritage.
The region was a central location for the spread of Buddhism to Central and East Asia, with many Chinese Buddhist pilgrims visiting the region.
The release of Khuda Kay Liye is seen by many as the revival of cinema in Pakistan and the cementing of Karachi as the Pakistani film and showbiz capital.
The reliability of the native forces for continuing their control over an increasingly rebellious India diminished, and so the government decided to end the British rule of the Indian Subcontinent.
The relics of Muhammad are displayed after the morning prayers in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir at the Hazratbal Shrine, where night-long prayers are also held.
The religious beliefs and folklore of the Indus valley people have become a major part of the Hindu faith that evolved in this part of the South Asia.
The remaining portion of the genome was from an indigenous East Eurasian source, termed Ancient Ancestral South Indian (AASI), thought to represent indigenous South Asian hunter-gatherer ancestry.
The remains of Buddhist cave city called Godrani caves can still be seen today.
The renovated stadium was inaugurated by the Prime Minister of Pakistan Shehbaz Sharif on 7 February 2025.
The report highlights that the total Hindu fertility rate in Pakistan stands at 3.2, which is equivalent to the Muslim fertility rate in India.
The residents then migrated towards the Ganges basin in the east, where they established smaller villages and isolated farms.
The resolution was moved by A. K. Fazlul Huq (26 October 1873 – 27 April 1962), often called Sher-e-Bangla, passed on 24th March and had its signatures from the Founding Fathers of Pakistan.
The resolution was presented by A. K. Fazlul Huq.
The rest of the prayer is completed regularly.
The result has been catastrophic for both the environment and the local population.
The result is a layered dialogue between heritage and modernity.
The results of the 2023 Census of Pakistan thus are significant in the first official Sikh count since the formation of Pakistan as a sovereign nation.
The results of the 2023 census will be a milestone in the first official inclusion of Sikhs since the formation of Pakistan as a sovereign nation.
The retroflex lateral is most commonly analysed as an approximant as opposed to a flap.
The retroflex stops are post-alveolar, the articulator being the tip of the tongue or sometimes the underside.
The retroflex ɳ is a realised as a true nasal only if adjacent to a retroflex stop, elsewhere it is a nasalised retroflex flap [ɽ̃].
The rhythmic organization is based on rhythmic patterns called tala.
The rise of Buddhism and the influence of Greek civilisation led to the development of a Greco-Buddhist style, starting from the 1st century CE.
The rise of Taliban insurgency in Pakistan has been an influential and increasing factor in the persecution of and non-Muslims in Pakistan.
The role as the first president of the Muslim League and its main financial backer during its earlier years was undertaken by Sir Aga Khan III, an Ismaili by faith.
The rolled-out dough is then thrown on the preheated dry tava and cooked on both sides.
The roof of the tahkhana forms the platform on which the mosque is situated.
The root for the article 19 freedom of expression traced from South Asia when any body was directly sentenced to death if they uttered a single word against the government.
The roots of Pakistani nationalism lie in the separatist campaign of the Muslim League in British India, which sought to create a new state for Indian Muslims called Pakistan, on the basis of Islam.
The roots of Sindhi culture go back to the distant past.
The roots of the religion in the region go back to the first days of the Bábí religion in 1844, with Shaykh Sa'id Hindi who was from Multan.
The roving groups of singers will take the tunes of popular Hindi movie songs, replaced with Burmese lyrics and invocations about fasting, the principles of Islam, and the benefits of Salat.
The rudra veena, an ancient string instrument, is used in instrumental music in dhrupad.
The ruined Adina Mosque (1374–75) is very large, which is unusual in Bengal, with a barrel vaulted central hall flanked by hypostyle areas.
The ruins of Sirkap date to the 2nd century BCE, and were built by the region's Greco-Bactrian kings who ruled in the region following Alexander the Great's invasion of the region in 326 BCE.
The sage modestly asked for a few grains of rice but with one condition: the king must put a single grain of rice on the first chess square and double it on every subsequent one.
The sale of the sweet usually increases significantly during festivals such as Tihar and Dashain.
The same for the alternate term bin men yao jian, literally meaning "guest [at the door] medicinal sweetmeat".
The same newspaper have also reported that some 1,000 Hindu women are forced to convert and marry Muslim men in Pakistan annually.
The samosa gained its popularity due to its savory flavor and convenience.
The samosas there are generally smaller and filled with chicken, cheese, crabs or potatoes.
The samsa is a savoury pastry in Central Asian cuisines, consisting of a bun stuffed with meat and sometimes vegetables.
The sarangi had to be retuned between songs; the harmonium didn't, and was soon preferred.
The satirical tone of these kafis, sometimes, depicts true picture of political situations and social conditions of their own days.
The scenes depicted by this category of wall paintings are seemingly drawn from the Markandeya Purana, which promotes the reverence of Shakti as the divine-mother figure.
The school consisted of several monasteries without large dormitories or lecture halls where the religious instruction was provided on an individualistic basis.
The script continued to be used on a smaller scale by the trader community until the Partition of India in 1947.
The script is used in Pakistan and India today.
The script is used in Pakistan today, albeit unlike most other native languages of Pakistan, the Naskh style is more common for Sindhi writing than the Nasta'liq style.
The script was decreed a standard script by the Bombay Presidency thus inciting anarchy in the Muslim majority region.
The seal has hence come to be known as the Pashupati Seal, after Pashupati (lord of all animals), an epithet of Shiva.
The second and third terraces are jointly known as the Bagh-e-Faiz Baksh, meaning Bestower of Goodness.
The second edition was held in Cyprus in 2021 which was organised by the World Kabaddi Federation.
The second level of Sufism in Pakistan is 'intellectual Sufism' which is growing among the urban and educated population.
The second lowest in South Asia after Afghanistan.
The second marked change from Arabian ghazal form in Persian ghazals was a movement towards far greater autonomy between the couplets.
The second match against West Indies was a disaster.
The second match for Pakistan was with Australia, where Australia won the toss and elected to bat.
The second option available would include 12 years of schooling and four years of schooling to receive a Bachelor of Education for either elementary or secondary educators.
The second, a private and concealed residential section is divided into courts in the north and accessible through elephant gate.
The security is set up after various representatives of intelligence and investigation agencies meet.
The separate electorate system had marginalized non-Muslims by depriving them of adequate representation in the assemblies.
The serial site includes a number of monuments and other historical places of note in the area besides the four settlements at Bhir, Saraikala, Sirkap, and Sirsukh.
The serials are widely popular in South Asian countries Afghanistan, Bangladesh, India and Nepal.
The series win pushed up Pakistan's ranking in all three formats of the game.
The sermon also instructs Muslims as to the performance of rituals of Eid, such as the zakāt.
The sermon of Eid takes place after the Eid prayer, unlike Friday prayer which comes first before prayer.
The shalwar are loose pyjama-like trousers.
The shalwar is wide at the top but fits closely to the legs and is gathered at the ankles.
The shalwar kameez known as the Anarkali suit is named after the court dancer from Lahore, Pakistan.
The shalwar tends to be loose and rests above the ankles.
The shalwar-kameez is a widely-worn, and national dress, of Pakistan.
The shalwar-kameez is widely-worn by men and women in Pakistan, and is the country's national dress.
The shape of the rolling pin also varies from region to region.
The shared tradition of Urdu literature and English literature of British India was inherited by the new state.
The sheer size of the city, and its provision of public buildings and facilities, suggests a high level of social organisation.
The shift has been seen by many as the leading cause for what has been referred to as the "resurgence of Pakistani cinema".
The shingara is usually filled with pieced potatoes, vegetables, nuts, etc.
The shining white color in comparison to the dark green background makes the mosque stand out and reveals its significance to the city of Islamabad.
The short vowels have more centralized phonetic quality than the long vowels.
The show celebrates the rich Bengali culture and brings education into light.
The show was immediately successful and, after its first few episodes were broadcast, became the channel's most-watched drama.
The shutdown came after the network attempted to air allegations on the involvement of Inter-Services Intelligence in the attempted assassination of its leading anchor Hamid Mir.
The side seams are left open below the waist-line (the opening known as the chaak[note 1]), which gives the wearer greater freedom of movement.
The sighting of the hilal is traditionally marked by the beating of drums in some regions.
The significance of Urdu as a national symbol was downplayed by these disputes when English and Bengali were also accepted as official languages in the former East Pakistan (now Bangladesh).
The simple cap with rolled-rim was worn all over the area, from where it spread further west, towards the Chitral area where it was widely worn by the late 1920s.
The singer improvises and finds inspiration within the raga to depict the khyal.
The singer must be an adult and not a child or a female.
The singer uses these few lines as a basis for fast improvisation.
The singing style of qawwali is different from Western singing styles in many ways.
The site consists of a collection of Jain temples.
The site is currently closed to the public in order to prevent further deterioration.
The site is currently threatened by erosion and improper restoration.
The site of the Shalimar Gardens originally belonged to the Arain Mian Family Baghbanpura.
The site was chosen for its stable water supply.
The sites of a number of important cities noted in ancient Indian texts were identified by scholars early in the 19th century.
The sites were first excavated by John Marshall, who worked at Taxila over a period of twenty years from 1913.
The six regional teams (operated by respective six cricket associations) ensure that the affairs of the associations at city level are regulated.
The sixth Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb chose Lahore as the site for a new mosque.
The size of the dome denoted the prominence of the buried individual, with undersides embellished with carved floral patterns.
The skilled paan maker is known as a paanwala in North India.
The small surplus produced in these small communities did not allow the development of trade, and the cities died out.
The so-called "jingle trucks" of Pakistan showcase this art tradition all over the country.
The society in Pakistan is profoundly patriarchal.
The song "Ko Ko Korina" sung by Ahmed Rushdi in 1966 is considered to be the first pop song of Pakistan.
The sound is a hard 'da' in the Telugu language and the 'ra' sound would be an incorrect pronunciation.
The sound is the retroflex flap [ɽ], which is written in Hindi with the letter ड़, and in Urdu with the letter ڑ.
The southern Punjab cities of Dera Ghazi Khan, Bahawalpur, Uch Sharif and Mailsi are also known for their sohan halwa products.
The southernmost site of the Indus Valley Civilisation is Daimabad in Maharashtra.
The spacious prayer place before the main mosque is open in all directions allowing air to flow and keep the interior cool.
The spit from chewing betel nuts, which also results in red stains, is often regarded as unhygienic and an eyesore in public facilities in certain countries.
The sport is growing in the South Asian community there.
The sport is the major event of the National Horse & Cattle Show held at Fortress Stadium Lahore.
The squad for the T20I fixtures was named two days later, with Thisara Perera selected as captain.
The stadium also hosted the final of the 2018 Blind Cricket World Cup.
The stadium hosted four One Day Internationals (ODI) during the 2025 ICC Champions Trophy, including one semi-final between New Zealand and South Africa.
The stadium hosted its first international matches in April 1984, in the Asia Cup.
The stadium initially started with a few limited seats and very modest facilities but by 2002 had a 17,000 capacity and floodlights.
The stadium was officially inaugurated on February 11, 2025, following extensive renovations in preparation for the ICC Champions Trophy 2025.
The stadium was renovated for the 1996 Cricket World Cup when it hosted the final.
The stadium was the venue for the 1982 Quaid-e-Azam International Tournament.
The stadium's dressing rooms and VIP boxes were renovated for the final, along with the pitch and outfield.
The stamps were inscribed "15th August 1947" because of the prevailing confusion of actual date of independence.
The standard national system of education is mainly inspired by the English educational system.
The stark difference between the Waziristan pakol, and the regular pakol, is that it is larger in size, and the edges are curved ridges.
The start of the Delhi Sultanate in 1206 under Qutb ud-Din Aibak introduced a large Islamic state to India, using Central Asian styles.
The state of Punjab is considered a major centre of truck art in India, with a distinctive style and expert artists.
The state of Punjab uses the Three Language Formula, and Punjabi is required to be either the medium of instruction, or one of the three languages learnt in all schools in Punjab.
The state, however, no longer publishes daily newspapers; the former Press Trust sold or liquidated its newspapers and magazines in the early 1990s.
The stonemason works show rather typical Sindhi workmanship, probably from before Islamic times.
The streets would be filled with performances by musicians, magicians and other talented people that suitable for all ages, so children could enjoyed it.
The structural requirements of ghazal are similar in stringency to those of the Petrarchan sonnet.
The structure derives its name from the Urdu word for 900,000, Naulakha.
The structure is made of marble and red sandstone.
The structure of domestic cricket in Pakistan at the highest level has changed many times since 1947 with the latest restructure being in 2019.
The structure was originally inlaid with precious and semi-precious stones.
The study also gives credit to the content of Pakistani dramas for its comparative realism with fast pace, shorter duration and limited number of episodes for its acceptability among Indian audience.
The study asked participants questions about their emotional intelligence and life satisfaction.
The study compares Indonesia, Malaysia and Pakistan.
The study found that majority (91.5%) of the respondents in Rahimyar Khan, Bahawalpur, Tharparkar and Umerkot districts believed that political parties are not giving importance to them.
The study found that the literacy rate in Indonesia is 90%, in Malaysia it's 89% and in Pakistan it's 60.65%, which is significantly lower.
The study revealed regional patterns and detailed technological aspects of bronze production in Harappa and in Indus Valley Civilisation more generally.
The study revealed that the general mood of the workplace is correlated with emotional intelligence.
The stupa was built during the Kushan era to house Buddhist relics and was among the tallest buildings in the ancient world.
The style is similar to the Sindhi kancha shalwar as both are derivatives of the pantaloon shalwar worn in Iraq and adopted in these locations during the 7th century AD.
The style was Iranian, but the arches were still corbelled in the traditional Indian way.
The style, which is very variable, thus became one of a number of revival architecture styles that were available to the Victorian architect.
The styles of shalwar kameez worn in Afghanistan include various styles of khet partug, perahan tunban and Firaq partug worn by Pashtuns, Tajiks, and Hazaras.
The sub-division of a patti, known as a thula, are named after minimal lineages.
The subject is marked as nominative except for the past tense constructions where the subject of a transitive verb is marked as oblique and the verb agrees with the object.
The subject of the verb takes the bare oblique case, while the object may be in nominative case or in oblique case and followed by the accusative case marker کي‎ खे khe.
The success of Indus trade in Central and Western Asia did not only rely on the dynamic entrepreneurialism of Indus merchants and the exotic commodities they offered.
The successful tour allowed Pakistan to qualify for the 2017 ICC Champions Trophy, removing West Indies from a place in the tournament.
The successor governments would be given dominion status and would have an implicit right to secede from the British Commonwealth.
The sugar syrup may be replaced with (slightly) diluted maple syrup for a gulab jamun.
The sultanates of the Deccan Plateau, Gujarat, Bengal and Kashmir are discussed below.
The summer monsoonal winds also contribute to high wave energy levels.
The surfaces of both are elaborately decorated with inscriptions and geometric patterns; in Delhi the shaft is fluted with "superb stalactite bracketing under the balconies" at the top of each stage.
The survey noted that majority of the scheduled caste Hindu families do not send their girl children to schools due to the fear of forced conversion.
The surviving pavilion was used as an office for Faqir Syed Noor-ud-din, a trusted Governor of Ranjit Singh.
The suthan ends at the ankles with a tight band which distinguishes the suthan from a shalwar.
The suthan was traditionally worn with a long kurta but can also be worn with a short kurti or frocks.
The sweet form (acho) is popular with the young, but grownups tend to prefer it with cardamom, cloves and tobacco.
The sweet is known as Lal Mohan (लालमोहन) in Nepali language and is available at almost every sweet shop.
The sweet paan of the Khasi tribe is famous for its special quality.
The symbol ń is used to denote nasalization of the preceding vowel.
The symbolic convergence of the identity and sovereignty over a forgotten mosque provided ammunition for those seeking office at the provincial level.
The symbols that accompany the images vary from seal to seal, making it impossible to derive a meaning for the symbols from the images.
The tambura is also regarded as one of the most important instruments, due to its functioning as a fundamental layer that the rest of the instruments adhere to throughout a performance.
The tandoori style of cooking is common throughout rural and urban Pakistan, and also has strong roots in neighboring India, Iran and Afghanistan.
The teachers have a lower salary package as well because they are not requiring them to come into work.
The team continues to inspire, playing a key role in advancing women’s cricket in Pakistan and beyond.
The team is considered a strong but unpredictable team.
The team is ranked within the top 50 volleyball nations by FIVB and has won two Central Asian titles, and a bronze medal at the 1962 Asian Games.
The team is well supported at home and abroad, especially in the United Kingdom where British Pakistanis have formed a fan-club called the "Stani Army".
The team qualified for the World Baseball Classic qualifier round for the first time where they lost 0–10 against Brazil and 0–14 while competing against Great Britain in 2016.
The team was bowled out for 160 and lost the match by 150 runs.
The team won the first SAARC Baseball Championship in 2011.
The team would later participate in the 2022 Commonwealth Games mixed team event through a bipartite invitation.
The teams are responsible for revenue generation through sponsorship, marketing and strategic collaborations with business conglomerates.
The teams essentially survived on their department sport budgets, with the players sidelined as permanent employees than as professional footballers.
The teams would compete in the principal competitions in all three forms of the game: the Quaid-e-Azam Trophy (First Class), Pakistan Cup (List A) and National T20 Cup (Domestic T20).
The television series Pepsi Battle of the Bands was instrumental in launching Entity Paradigm, Aaroh, and the Mekaal Hasan Band, all of whom competed in the inaugural edition of the show in 2002.
The temple also has a water-melon shaped dome.
The temple believed to be nearly 150 years ago was demolished after being declared an old and dangerous structure in Karachi, the provincial capital of Sindh Province.
The temple complex surrounds a pond named Katas which is regarded as sacred by Hindus.
The temple complex was built in the 7th to 9th centuries CE during the reign of the Hindu Shahi empire.
The temple is square in plan and built on a raised platform.
The temples were inscribed on the tentative list for UNESCO World Heritage status in 2016 as the Nagarparkar Cultural Landscape.
The term "Saraiki" was first introduced for the Multani, Riasti and Derawali dialects of this "Greater Punjabi" macrolanguage in the 1960s as a result of a sociopolitical movement.
The term "jingle truck" is military slang that was coined by American troops serving in Afghanistan, although it may also date back to the British colonial period.
The term Greater Gandhara describes the cultural and linguistic extent of Gandhara and its language, Gandhari.
The term Mawlid is also used in some parts of the world, such as Egypt, as a generic term for the birthday celebrations of other historical religious figures such as Sufi saints.
The term Mawlid is derived from the Arabic root word walad, meaning "to give birth" or "descendant".
The term Muhajir is also used for descendants of Muslims who migrated to Pakistan after the 1947 partition of India.
The term came to be because of the jingling sound that the trucks make due to the chains and pendants hanging from the bumpers of the vehicles.
The term is derived from the Hindustani chānd rāt (Devanagari: चाँद रात, Nastaʼlīq: چاند رات), literally translating to 'moon night'.
The terracotta figurines included cows, bears, monkeys, and dogs.
The themes covered are usually romantic in nature, hence giving more importance to lyrics rather than Raag, and bringing out the storytelling qualities of music.
The themes in Sindhi music often center around Sufism and mysticism.
The third Karachi Fashion Week was held in 2011 from October 6–9.
The third and most recent settlement is that of Sirsukh, which was built by rulers of the Kushan empire, who ruled from nearby Purushapura (modern Peshawar).
The third sultan, Firuz Shah (r. 1351–88) is said to have designed buildings himself, and was the longest ruler and greatest builder of the dynasty.
The third-person pronouns are listed below.
The three branches of the modern Indo-Iranian languages are Indo-Aryan, Iranian, and Nuristani.
The three days after the listed date are also part of the festival.
The three primary registers of Indian classical music are mandra (lower), madhya (middle) and taar (upper).
The tillana of Carnatic music is based on the tarana, although the former is primarily associated with dance.
The time before the listed date the pilgrims visit Mount Arafat and descend from it after sunrise of the listed day.
The title for the inaugural season was won by the Bangalore Rhinos.
The tomb of I'timād-ud-Daulah, is a mausoleum in the city of Agra in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh.
The tomb of Roshanara Begum and the garden surrounding it were neglected for a long time and are now in an advanced state of decay.
The tomb of the founder of the dynasty, Ghiyath al-Din Tughluq (d. 1325) is more austere, but impressive; like a Hindu temple, it is topped with a small amalaka and a round finial like a kalasha.
The tomb, built in 1571 in the corner of the mosque compound, is a square marble chamber with a verandah.
The top tier of the Pakistan football league system, the PPL operates on a system of promotion and relegation with the PFF League.
The total cost of these renovations is estimated to be around Rs.3.5 Billion.
The total height of the structure is about 54 metres from ground level.
The total number of Pashto-speakers is at least 40 million, although some estimates place it as high as 60 million.
The total number of speakers, according to Ethnologue, is 8.8 million.
The total population of Buddhists is therefore unlikely to be more than a few thousand.
The total population of the region that composes contemporary Pakistan was approximately 17,708,014 according to the 1901 census.
The total population of the region that composes contemporary Pakistan was approximately 20,428,473 according to the 1911 census.
The total population of the region that composes contemporary Pakistan was approximately 22,214,152 according to the 1921 census.
The total population of the region that composes contemporary Pakistan was approximately 24,774,056 according to the 1931 census.
The total population of the region that composes contemporary Pakistan was approximately 29,643,600 according to the final census prior to partition in 1941.
The tour consisted of four Tests, two T20Is and five ODIs.
The tour was a disappointment and Pakistan lost all three ODIs as well as the T20 match.
The tourists won the first match by an innings and 177 runs; they won the second match by 6 wickets.
The tournament did not start well for Pakistan, losing to their arch-rivals India by 124 runs.
The tournament was a disappointing one for the Pakistanis, where they won 2 and lost 2, finished the group as third and disqualified for the semi-finals.
The tournament was suspended after a few months into the season and then cancelled.
The tradition for Eid al-Adha involves slaughtering an animal and sharing the meat in three equal parts – for family, for relatives and friends, and for poor people.
The tradition of Eid procession can be traced back to the Mughal era of Old Dhaka.
The tradition of truck art became "a tradition for generations of truck artists" in the Indian subcontinent.
The tradition of visiting dargahs is still practiced today.
The traditional Bolani (vegetarian flatbreads) is a popular meal during Eid al-Fitr in Afghanistan.
The traditional bamboo cannon, meriam buloh, and fireworks are notoriously loud and can be very dangerous to operator, bystander and even nearby buildings.
The traditional chapli kebab is prepared by frying the kebabs in lamb fat or cow fat over wood-fired stoves to lend an organic flavour.
The traditional classical rāgas in which the lyrics were rendered were also difficult to understand.
The traditional convention in identifying Urdu poets is to mention the takhallus at the end of the name.
The traditional dress for both men and women is the shalwar kameez; trousers, jeans, and shirts are also popular among men.
The traditional dress of Saraiki People is the Shalwar kameez; This is also the national dress of Pakistan.
The traditional male Pashtun dress includes the Khet partug, Peshawari shalwar, and the Patke tunban.
The traditional pakol hat is a soft, woollen hat that is flat, and rims are rolled into the headwear to be worn.
The transcriptions and tone annotations in the examples below are based on those provided in Punjabi University, Patiala's Punjabi-English Dictionary.
The tribal chiefs in Balochistan, particularly the Jams of Lasbela and Bugti of Dera Bugti, consider non-Muslims like Hindus as members of their own extended family and allows religious freedom.
The tribe had several capitals, but none are populated today.
The tribes listed were the furthermost border tribes known to those in Madhyadeśa, the Āṅgeyas and Māgadhīs in the east, and the Mūjavants and Gandhārīs in the north.
The trousers can be wide and baggy, or they can be cut quite narrow, on the bias.
The true gemination of a consonant after a long vowel is unheard of but is written in some English loanwords to indicate short /ɛ/ and /ɔ/, e.g.
The turban itself has been a symbol of pride and the center of many Pashto proverbs.
The twisted pakol is another variant of the pakol; it has two layers and the rims are twisted.
The two greatest cities, Mohenjo-daro and Harappa, emerged c. 2600 BC along the Indus River valley in Punjab and Sindh.
The two main pavilions at Gaddafi Stadium, previously known as the main building's pavilion and far-end Pavilion, have been renamed ahead of the ICC Champions Trophy 2025.
The two major Sunni sects in Pakistan are the Barelvi movement and Deobandi movement.
The two words in the term are derived from the Sanskrit words candrá (चंद्र) "moon" and rā́tri (रात्रि) "night", respectively.
The types and forms of large buildings required by Muslim elites, with mosques and tombs much the most common, were very different from those previously built in India.
The types and varieties of samosa made in Maldivian cuisine are known as bajiyaa.
The typical dress of a Baloch woman consists of a long frock and shalwar with a headscarf.
The typical mosque layout in the classic Mughal era involved a large rectangular courtyard surrounded by an arcade on three sides and a prayer hall on one side.
The unconventional design by Turkish architect Vedat Dalokay was selected after an international competition.
The underside of some canopies feature lotus flowers, a symbol commonly associated with Hinduism.
The understanding of the spiritual aspects but also the form's reliance on poetry requires a level of literacy in order to fulfill the role.
The universities do not provide skills that are in demand in the market.
The upcoming season is expected to include only club sides, excluding the departmental teams which would not be able to take part from now on.
The upper garments include the Punjabi kameez and the chola of the Punjab region.
The uppermost terrace of the gardens is named Bagh-e-Farah Baksh, literally meaning Bestower of Pleasure.
The usage is from the Persian phrase birinj biryan (with Persian: برنج birinj, "rice"), meaning "fried rice".
The use of colour was also relatively restrained, with emphasis instead on finishing surfaces with high-quality, polished materials.
The use of funerary pavilions eventually expanded beyond lower Sindh, and influenced funerary architecture in neighbouring Gujarat.
The usual type of Indian architecture borrowed from was Mughal architecture, or its Rajput palace version.
The variety spoken in Karachi also has nasalized vowels, most importantly /ẽː/ and /ãː/.
The vast archaeological site includes neolithic remains dating to 3360 BCE, and Early Harappan remains dating to 2900–2600 BCE at Sarai Kala.
The venue also hosted three main matches as a part of the 2018 Blind Cricket World Cup.
The venue hosted 11 group-stage matches during 2021 ICC Men's T20 World Cup.
The venue is scheduled to host 5 matches of the 2025 ICC Champions Trophy including one semi-final and the final in case India did not qualify for it.
The verbal verses were based on folk tales.
The victory was Pakistan's first against South Africa in a World Cup match.
The vocational curriculum starts at year 5 and ends with year 10.
The vowels are modal length /i e æ ɑ ɔ o u/ and short /ɪ ʊ ə/.
The weights and measures later used in Kautilya's Arthashastra (4th century BCE) are the same as those used in Lothal.
The weights and measures of the Indus Valley Civilisation, on the other hand, were highly standardised, and conformed to a set scale of gradations.
The well-established phoneme /ʃ/ may be realised allophonically as the voiceless retroflex fricative [ʂ] in learned clusters with retroflexes.
The white marble Moti Masjid, or Pearl Mosque, also dates from the Shah Jahan period.
The white marble structure is among its prominent extensions (such as Sheesh Mahal and Naulakha pavilion) to the Lahore Fort Complex.
The white tomb rises above a reflecting pool, within a large walled garden.
The widespread discontent of this period crystallized into nationwide non-violent movements of non-cooperation and civil disobedience.
The widespread educational infrastructure has enabled the Deobandi movement to play a pivotal role in shaping religious education and discourse across the country.
The win in the second Test was their highest winning margin against any opposition in their history.
The winning design was that of Turkish architect Vedat Dalokay.
The women prepare and offer sweets to family and visitors, while small children go around and pay their respects to the elderly by kissing their hands.
The women's national Kabaddi team of Nepal won the historic bronze medal in the 19th Asian Games.
The wooden panels on the ceiling are decorated with stained glass work, while the walls are richly decorated with floral designs.
The woolen cap has been the staple headgear of Shina and Kho people for centuries.
The word "Desi" comes from the Sanskrit word "Desh" meaning "country".
The word "Eid" appears once in Al-Ma'ida, the fifth surah of the Quran, with the meaning "a festival or a feast".
The word "Jhumar" comes from Jhum/Jhoom, which means Swaying.
The word "Mas" means moon and "Junali" means polo ground.
The word "Mass Junali" is derived from Khowar language.
The word 'lassi' means yogurt mixed with water in Punjabi and Hindi-Urdu.
The word Bhajji is derived from the Sanskrit word Bharjita meaning fried.
The word Punjabi (sometimes spelled Panjabi) has been derived from the word Panj-āb, Persian for 'Five Waters', referring to the five major eastern tributaries of the Indus River.
The word chapat (Marathi: चापट) means "slap" or "flat", describing the traditional method of forming round pieces of thin dough by slapping the dough between the wetted palms of the hands.
The word chapati is derived from the Sanskrit word चर्पटी (charpaṭī).
The word chapati is noted in the 16th-century document Ain-i-Akbari by Abu'l-Fazl ibn Mubarak, vizier of Mughal Emperor Akbar.
The word ghazal originates from the Arabic word غزل (ġazal).
The word is a loan of Indian Persian vilāyatī (ولایاتی), from vilāyat (ولایت) meaning 'Iran' and later 'Europe' or 'Britain', ultimately from Arabic wilāyah ولاية‎ meaning 'state, province'.
The word karahi emanates from karah, a bigger version of karahi traditionally used in the subcontinent for boiling milk and producing thick cream.
The word kheer is derived from the Sanskrit word kshira (क्षीर), which means milk or a "milk-based dish".
The word pakoṛā is derived from Sanskrit पक्ववट, pakvavaṭa, a compound of pakva ('cooked') and vaṭa ('a small lump') or its derivative vaṭaka, 'a round cake made of pulse fried in oil or ghee'.
The word payasam used in South India for kheer originates from the Sanskrit term pāyasa (पायस), which means "milk" or a dish made from milk.
The word takhallus is derived from Arabic, meaning "ending".
The words are often used interchangeably.
The words that are sung must be free from obscenity and indecency and they must not be void.
The words أضحى (aḍḥā) and قربان (qurbān) are synonymous in meaning 'sacrifice' (animal sacrifice), 'offering' or 'oblation'.
The written standard for Shahmukhi also slightly differs from that of Gurmukhi, as it is used for western dialects, whereas Gurumukhi is used to write eastern dialects.
The year saw some of the most critically acclaimed Pakistani films, including Moor and Manto.
The young woman is then given to the deceased's family "without her consent".
The youngest son of Ranjit Singh, Maharaja Duleep Singh was born at the fort's Mai Jindan Haveli in 1838.
The zenith of Gandhara's cultural and political influence transpired during Kushan rule, later it flourished under Gupta Empire before succumbing to devastation during the Hunnic Invasions.
Their debut album Disco Deewane, released in 1981, broke sales records in Pakistan and became the best-selling Asian pop album at the time.
Their first match was against cricket rivals — India.
Their last ruler in Gandhara was Kandik, c. 500 CE.
Their most celebrated achievements came at the Asian Games, where they claimed gold medals in both 2010 (Guangzhou) and 2014 (Incheon), marking historic milestones for women’s sport in the country.
Their nomadic life style is completely different than other provincial states of the country.
Their primary function to the shrine is to service formal activities, primarily the death anniversaries of Sufi saints (Urs).
Their religion has been compared to that of ancient Greece, but they are much closer to the Hindu traditions in other parts of the Indian subcontinent.
Their smallest division, which is marked on an ivory scale found in Lothal in Gujarat, was approximately 1.704 mm, the smallest division ever recorded on a scale of the Bronze Age.
Their socio-economic conditions facilitate religious discrimination.
Their song "Dil Dil Pakistan" was voted as the third most popular song of all time by a BBC World poll in 2003.
Their source has generally been the older language's series of plain voiced stops, thus Sanskrit janayati > Saraiki ʄəɲən 'be born'.
Themes in the art draw heavily from indigenous artistic traditions while working in modern pop cultural and political elements.
Then Ceylon, on a return tour in March–April 1950, played five first-class matches.
Then he takes the leaves of betel, puts a little chalk on them, and masticates them along with the betel.
Then people attend the Eid prayer in Eidgah.
Then, from around 2000 BC, there was a steady disintegration that lasted till 1400 BC – what is usually called Late Harappan.
Then, the Imam recites Sūrat al-Fātiḥah and Surat Al-'A`lá and the congregation performs Ruku and Sujud as in other prayers.
Then, the person would receive an associate degree in education.
There also exists wall paintings based upon the Sat Sai of Bihari.
There appears to be a cultural influence upon what kind of festivities are a part of the Mawlid celebration.
There are 0.55 million speakers in the province of Balochistan, especially in the Kacchi Plain.
There are a few disused synagogues in both cities; while one Karachi synagogue was torn down for the construction of a shopping mall.
There are a lot of TV Channels, Magazines, Portals, and websites which are working only for the fashion industry.
There are a number of legislative and regulatory mechanisms that directly and indirectly affect the media.
There are a total of 75 domes, all small and shallow and small except for a large one above the mihrab and four lesser ones at the corners.
There are accounts of both Siddhartha Gautama and Lord Krishna having played an ancient form of the sport.
There are almost 3 million Muslims in Thailand.
There are also Irish Christian missionaries and Ahmadiyya missionaries operating in the Thar region.
There are also a smaller number of borrowings from Portuguese.
There are also accounts of kabaddi having been played in Iran 2,000 years ago.
There are also an unknown (but very small) number of expatriate Brahuis in the Arab States of the Persian Gulf, and Turkmenistan.
There are also automatic roti makers which automate the whole process.
There are also images of Amitābha Buddha with the bodhisattvas Avalokiteśvara and Mahāsthāmaprāpta which were made in Gandhāra during the Kushan era.
There are also paintings based upon traditional folk ballads, such as Puran Bhagat.
There are also some traditional games of Pakistan, such as kabaddi, which are popular.
There are also some words which are said to have rising tone in the first syllable and falling in the second.
There are also speakers in parts of the neighbouring Pakistani territory of Azad Kashmir.
There are also sweet versions, such as coconut singara, as well as others filled with khoya and dipped in sugar syrup that are known as Mishti Shingara.
There are approximately 60 local languages with fewer than a million speakers.
There are at least 4,000 Pakistani citizens practicing the Zoroastrian religion.
There are currently 16 clubs in the PPL.
There are exceptions to these rules and they account for minimal pairs like /it'la/ 'informing' and /'itla/ 'so much'.
There are five contrasting places of articulation for the stops: velar, palatal, retroflex, dental and bilabial.
There are four major forms of Indian kabaddi recognised by some amateur federation.
There are further depictions of various royal figures, such as Rani Jindan.
There are hundreds of Pakistani newspapers from the large national Urdu newspapers to the small local vernacular papers.
There are many different ways that people celebrate Mawlid, depending on where they are from.
There are many published translations from Persian and Turkish by Annemarie Schimmel, Arthur John Arberry and many others.
There are many regional sports that are played in Sindh.
There are many types of biryani in the Indian subcontinent.
There are many ways of decorating the garment, sometimes typically putting flowers or feathers into the hat, especially for festive occasions.
There are more than twenty-one polo clubs in Pakistan and over forty polo championships held all over the country every year.
There are no historical facts known for certain about Pukkusāti, and all theories about his reign are speculative relying on later Buddhist sources.
There are no important dialectal differences.
There are now dedicated radio stations catering to British-South Asians such as the BBC Asian Network.
There are over 50 archaeological sites scattered around Taxila.
There are parts of Pakistan where government leaders have not enacted strategies to help children attend schools.
There are people who do not profess any faith (such as atheists and agnostics) in Pakistan, but their numbers are not known.
There are plenty of vegetables which are grown seasonally in Pakistan, which are cooked into curries which are eaten for lunch or dinner.
There are plenty of vegetarian-friendly vegetable and legume dishes popular in Pakistan.
There are several ablative case markers formed from the spatial postpositions and the ablative ending -ā̃.
There are several hundred thousand in the United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, United States, and Bangladesh.
There are six World Heritage Sites in Pakistan, and a further 26 on the tentative list.
There are small pockets of Sikhs in Lahore and Nankana Sahib in Punjab.
There are some Hindu poets in India who continue to write in Urdu after the partition, including Gopi Chand Narang and Gulzar Dehlvi.
There are some circular stamp seals with geometric designs, but lacking the Indus script which characterised the mature phase of the civilisation.
There are some possible loanwords from the language of the Indus Valley civilization.
There are three dominating media moguls, or large media groups, which to some extent also have political affiliations.
There are three main 'Saptak' which resemble to the 'Octaves' in Western Music except they characterize total seven natural (shuddha) notes or 'swaras' instead of eight.
There are three major clubs in Pakistan, which include Islamabad Rugby Football Club (IRFC) also known as the "JINNS", Lahore Rugby Football Club (LRFC), and Karachi Rugby Football Club (KRFC).
There are two levels of Sufism in Pakistan.
There are two main dialects: the dialect of the Mandwani (northern) tribes and the dialect of the Domki (southern) tribes.
There are two types of bachelor's degree courses in Pakistan: Pass or Honours.
There are usually three crops during the twelve months, and they are locally called by the name of the respective months in which they are harvested.
There are various types of Attan in the Pashtun belt of Afghanistan and Pakistan, they differ in motions, and even accessories.
There are very old claims of betel chewing dating to at least 13,000 BP at the Kuk Swamp site in New Guinea, based on probable Areca sp.
There even seems to be an entire section of the city dedicated to shell-working, located in the northeastern part of the site.
There has been a historical decline of Hinduism, Buddhism and Sikhism in the areas of Pakistan.
There has been success at the international level; Muhammad Yousaf was the 1994 IBSF World Snooker Champion and the 2006 IBSF World Masters Champion.
There have also been cases of violence and ill-treatment of Hindus, due to strict blasphemy laws.
There have been conversions to Islam from the religious minorities of Pakistan.
There have been numerous cases of violence and discrimination against Hindus, along with other minorities.
There have been observations of Lahnda varieties "merging" into Punjabi (especially in Punjab and Delhi), as well as of outright shift to the dominant languages of Punjabi or Hindi.
There have been terrorist attacks directed at Sufi shrines and festivals, 5 in 2010 that killed 64 people.
There have been terrorist attacks directed at Sufi shrines and festivals, five in 2010 that killed 64 people.
There have, nonetheless, been a number of interpretations offered for the meaning of the seals.
There is a Punjabi variant of kafi singing.
There is a clear divide between Urdu and English media.
There is a high number of vowel sequences, some of which can be analysed as diphthongs.
There is a lot of old vocabulary that has been replaced by borrowings e.g.
There is a shortage of teachers in Pakistan.
There is a significant increase in the influence of Iskcon due to its rejection of caste system.
There is a small Jewish community of Pakistani origin settled in Ramla, Israel.
There is a small population of Punjabi Hindus living in the Punjab province of Pakistan, most notably in Lahore where there are some 200 Hindu families.
There is a tendency to irregularly geminate consonants which follow long vowels, except in the final syllable of a word, e.g.menū̃ > mennū̃.
There is a tendency with speakers to insert /ɪ̯/ between adjacent "a"-vowels as a separator.
There is also a Harappan site called Rojdi in Rajkot district of Saurashtra.
There is also a Roman Catholic community in Karachi which was established by Goan and Tamil migrants when Karachi's infrastructure was being developed between the two World Wars.
There is also a chorus of four or five men who repeat key verses, and who aid percussion by hand-clapping.
There is also a great deal of variety between age cohorts.
There is also a growing Pakistani Sikh expatriate community in the United Arab Emirates.
There is also a smaller group of Muslim pastoralists who migrated to India, specifically Andhra Pradesh, prior to Partition.
There is also an inflection for the subjunctive mood.
There is an altered version of IAST often used for Punjabi in which the diphthongs ai and au are written as e and o, and the long vowels e and o are written as ē and ō.
There is currently a Punjabi language revitalisation movement in Pakistan.
There is evidence of Sindhi poets reciting their verses before the Muslim Caliphs in Baghdad.
There is more focus and interest on memorizations to qualify and pass exams.
There is no conclusive evidence of palaces or temples.
There is no consensus as to whether Brahui is a relatively recent language introduced into Balochistan or the remnant of a formerly more widespread Dravidian language family.
There is no dental implosive, partly due to the lesser retroflexion with which the retroflex implosive /ᶑ/ is pronounced.
There is no head of the selection committee.
There is no sign that the Harappan cities were laid waste by invaders.
There is raga in Indian classical music known as "Desi".
There is some local production, generally not commercial, but most leaves are imported from India.
There is thus very wide extension of Indian cultural forms in Makran in the seventh century, even in the period when it fell under Persian sovereignty.
There was a Ministry of Minority Affairs in the Government of Pakistan which looked after specific issues concerning Pakistani religious minorities.
There was a nymph-like beloved with cypress-like form and tulip-like face, Ruthlessly playing havoc with the hearts of the lovers.
There was also a decline in long-distance trade, although the local cultures show new innovations in faience and glass making, and carving of stone beads.
There were also some kingdoms and peoples who supported the British.
There were earlier and later cultures called Early Harappan and Late Harappan in the same area.
There were no Kabaddi tournaments in the inaugural 1984 edition.
There's nothing like her, I think, in the world.
There, it was the first time Pakistan defeat Sri Lanka in Sri Lanka after 9 years.
Therefore, Mas Junali became a source of connection between the people of Chitral District in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the neighbouring Gilgit-Baltistan.
Therefore, al-Hajj said that "the respect of this noble month should consist of additional righteous works, the giving of alms and other pious deeds.
Therefore, he talked about what would happen to a Muslim who rejoiced in his birth and loved him.
Therefore, in order to attain these goals, Syed launched the Aligarh Movement, of which Aligarh was the center.
Therefore, it has been concluded that the first Mawlid celebration which was a public festival was started by Sunnis in 1207 by Muẓaffar al-Dīn Gökburi.
Therefore, modern education became the pivot of his movement for regeneration of the Indian Muslims.
Therefore, the first definition of the Sindhi culture emanates from that of the 7000-year-old Indus Valley civilization.
Therefore, the leaves and juices are used ceremonially in Vietnamese weddings.
Therefore, the number of speakers in India remains unknown.
Thereupon, he set out with five of his brothers who wished to accompany him.
Thomas Patrick Hughes served as a Church Missionary Society missionary at Peshawar (1864–84), and became an oriental scholar, and compiled a 'Dictionary of Islam' (1885).
Those Pakistani Hindus who have migrated to India allege that Hindu girls are sexually harassed in Pakistani schools and their religious practices are mocked.
Those leaves resemble the leaves of the mulberry.
Those people are constantly chewing a fruit which they call "areca", and which resembles a pear.
Those values are giving, feasts, family, and grant celebrations.
Those who cannot afford the trip go to Churrio Jabal Durga Mata temple in Nagarparkar.
Those who live away from their families for their job or livelihood, they return to their home towns and villages to celebrate the festival with family members and relatives.
Those who live in rural areas tend to celebrate more modestly.
Though Pakistani media enjoy relative freedom compared to some of its South Asian neighbours, the industry was subjected to many undemocratic and regressive laws and regulations.
Though Urdu is spoken by many Muhajirs in its standard form.
Though begun under Jahangir, the Picture Wall was decorated throughout the 1620s, and may have been completed under the reign of his son, Shah Jahan.
Though cars are not traditionally decorated in South Asia, there are examples of cars embellished in a truck art style.
Though construction of the Shah Burj commenced under Jahangir, Shah Jahan was displeased with its design and appointed Asif Khan to oversee reconstruction.
Though due to the repeated Islamic invasion in the Pakhtun areas, most of them have converted to Islam or migrated to other parts of the Asia.
Though having some cultural and religious similarities to the Hindus, they are considered a separate ethnic religion people by the government of Pakistan.
Though most of the Punjabi Hindus migrated en masse to India after the partition of India in 1947.
Though named for Jahangir, construction on the site began during the reign of Akbar but was completed in 1620 under Jahangir.
Though the site is known to have been inhabited for millennia, the origins of Lahore Fort are obscure and traditionally based on various myths.
Though the site of the present fort has been inhabited for millennia, the first record of a fortified structure at the site was that of an 11th-century mudbrick fort.
Though the word Bagh is translated simply as "garden", bagh represents a harmonious existence between humans and nature, and represents a poetic connection between heaven and earth.
Though there is no evidence that priests or monarchs ruled Mohenjo-daro, archaeologists dubbed this dignified figure a "Priest-King".
Though, Pakistan maintains the title of Islamic state, the articles twenty, twenty-one and twenty-two in chapter two of its constitution guarantees religious freedom to the non-Muslim residents.
Thousands of steatite seals have been recovered, and their physical character is fairly consistent.
Three Free-to-air TV Channels are available on terrestrial beam, these are PTV Home, PTV News and ATV.
Three days after leaving the West Indies for Pakistan, via London, the Pakistan team were ruled out as suspects.
Three nasals /ŋ n m/ have aspirated counterparts /ŋʰ nʰ mʰ/.
Three of the four stamps depicted places from Pakistan while the fourth stamp depicted a motif.
Three to four subjects are selected as per the student's interests.
Three tones are distinguished in Punjabi (some sources have described these as tone contours, given in parentheses): low (high-falling), high (low-rising), and level (neutral or middle).
Three years later, the name of "Pakistan" as a separate state was proposed in a declaration made by Chaudhary Rahmat Ali, in the form of an acronym.
Through DTMB five TV channels of PTV Network, ATV and two Chinese TV Channels are available via terrestrial beam.
Through conservation, a large region of Thal desert has been afforested.
Through predictive analytics, educators gain insights into student performance, enabling informed decision-making.
Throughout India, various states have established an Urdu Academy to promote the use of Urdu and Urdu literature.
Throughout Pakistan's educational system, there is a gender disparity between males and females.
Throughout Terai, paan is as common as anywhere in northern India.
Throughout history the delta has survived this wave action because of the large discharge of fresh water to counter the erosional impact of waves.
Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, the film industry went through several periods of ups and downs, a reflection of its dependency on state funding and incentives.
Thumri is a semi-classical vocal form said to have begun in Uttar Pradesh with the court of Nawab Wajid Ali Shah, (r. 1847–1856).
Thus Pashto became a national language, a symbol for Pashtun nationalism.
Thus it is considered that he may have been an important intermediary for cultural influence between Ancient Persia and India.
Thus, Mahoor Shahzad became the first Pakistani badminton player to compete at the Olympic Games.
Thus, Pahari-influenced traditional miniature paintings began to be surmounted by European-influenced Company school paintings.
Thus, out of total 37 years since 1972, public expenditure on education as a percentage of GDP either decreased or remained stagnant for 21 years.
Thus, svadeśa (Sanskrit: स्वदेश) refers to one's own country or homeland, while paradeśa (Sanskrit: परदेश) refers to another's country or a foreign land.
Thus, the more [h] is realised, the less "tonal" a word will be pronounced, and vice versa.
Tilework was more commonly applied to the exterior of buildings and existed in two main types: cuerda seca and mosaic tilework.
Time needs to be invested in updating curriculum and teacher education facilities.
Tipu Sultans Summer Palace in Bengaluru is also a beautiful example.
To a large extent the media enjoys freedom of expression in spite of political pressure and direct bans sometimes administered by political stake holders.
To a large extent the media enjoys freedom of expression.
To a large extent, it was limited to the palaces and dance halls.
To be more specific, a girl is given in compensation to a victim whose brother or any family member has been killed/murdered by the girl's very close relatives such as brother or father.
To celebrate the culture and heritage of Pakistan, pictorial exhibitions are also held at the PNCA.
To celebrate the success of these endeavours, film journalist Ilyas Rashidi launched an annual awarding event on 17 July 1957.
To clinch the title in 2016, India defeated Iran by 38–29 in the final of the championship game.
To date, Pakistan is the only Muslim nuclear state.
To motivate the sage, the king offered anything the old man would name.
To the west, it is set off from the Pashto- and Balochi-speaking areas by the Suleiman Range, while to the south-east the Thar desert divides it from the Marwari language.
Today it is written in Perso-Arabic and Devanagari scripts (with some modifications).
Today the eastern Dari dialect of Persian is spoken by refugees from Afghanistan and a small number of local Balochistani Hazara community.
Today the pakol commonly worn by people of all social classes and backgrounds from Pakistan and Afghanistan, as well as in parts of India, such as in Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi.
Today, Pakistan is divided into 4 provinces.
Today, Pakistani fashion is a combination of traditional and modern dress and has become a mark of Pakistani culture.
Today, Pakistani literature has taken a shape of its own by depicting the complex class system and the common man.
Today, a large fraction of Sindhi Hindus consider themselves Nanakpanthi.
Today, it is an important part of the culture of India and Pakistan.
Today, it is the preferred script to use in a professional setting and by educated folk.
Today, most Pakistani Christians live in Northern Punjab.
Today, the captain and all the players have proved they are one of the best in the world.
Today, the chapli kebab is featured on the menu of Afghan, Indian and Pakistani restaurants across the world.
Today, the pakol commonly worn by people of all social classes and backgrounds from Pakistan and Afghanistan, as well as in parts of India, such as in Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi.
Today, there are over a hundred public and private radio stations due to more liberal media regulations.
Today, they continue to speak Pashto and celebrate Pashtun culture through the Attan dance.
Today, they have around 15 colonies in various villages of Mandi Yazman.
Tonal consonants are any voiced aspirates /ʱ/ and the voiced glottal fricative /ɦ/.
Tone is often reduced or rarely deleted when words are said with emphasis or on their own as a form of more exact identification.
Tonogenesis in Punjabi forfeits the sound of [h] for tone.
Topically, the ghazal focus also changed from nostalgic reminiscences of the homeland and loved ones, towards romantic or erotic themes.
Total cultivated area under the crop in Bangladesh is about 14,175 ha and the total annual production is about 72,500 tons.
Towards the late 1960s and early 1970s, political turmoil once again returned with the East Pakistan conflict brewing.
Towns are found throughout the delta, but there are no large cities on the delta south of Hyderabad.
Trade networks linked this culture with related regional cultures and distant sources of raw materials, including lapis lazuli and other materials for bead-making.
Traditional Islamic studies were no longer supported by the state, and some madrasahs lost their waqf or endowment.
Traditional Qawwali practice is built upon a system of hereditary training, in which qawwals are part of the service community connected to a particular shrine.
Traditional Sajarak is an important part of Saraiki male and female dress.
Traditional Sindhi women Suthan and Pajamo are made of bright colours and rich fabrics like soosi, silk, satin, velvets and brocades which are heavily embroidered at ankles (Pācha).
Traditional architecture facades exhibiting such skills as fresco, mirror work and marble inlay; tile, mosaic and stucco tracery are also displayed.
Traditional bhangra is now also performed on occasions other than during the harvest season.
Traditional bhangra is performed in a circle and is performed using traditional dance steps.
Traditional ghazal law may or may not have an explicit element of sexual desire in it, and the love may be spiritual.
Traditional pastry such as kush-tili, plov and chak-chak are prepared by Uzbek families the day before Eid al-Fitr for consumption.
Traditional poems regarding Muhammad's life are recited both in public mosques and at home in the evening.
Traditional spiced rice dishes and grilled meats are shared, making the celebration a modest yet meaningful occasion that fosters unity and cultural diversity.
Traditionally Pakistani cricket has been composed of talented players but is alleged to display limited discipline on occasion, making their performance inconsistent at times.
Traditionally press-formed from mild steel sheets or made of wrought iron, a karahi resembles a wok with steeper sides.
Traditionally the bulk of TV shows have been plays or soap operas, some of them critically acclaimed.
Traditionally, Punjabi identity is primarily linguistic, geographical and cultural.
Traditionally, meals are served on a dastarkhān—a special rug lined with a plastic sheet to prevent spills and surrounded by cushions or pillows for added comfort.
Traditionally, most Sunni and nearly all of the Shia scholars have approved the celebration of Mawlid, while Salafi and Deobandi scholars oppose the celebration.
Traditionally, the government-owned Pakistan Television Corporation (PTV) has been the dominant media player in Pakistan.
Tragedy struck the team when coach Bob Woolmer died one day later on 18 March 2007 in a hospital in Kingston, Jamaica.
Trailing by 473, Mohammad played the longest test match innings – a marathon 970 minutes for his match-saving 337.
Trained by his father from his youth, he first came to international attention in 2002 when he painted a Pakistani truck as part of the Smithsonian Folklife Festival.
Transmissions of AJK TV are available on terrestrial network in the northern areas of Azad Jammu and Kashmir only.
Traveling through the Kij valley further west (then under the government of Persia) Hiuen Tsang saw some 100 Buddhist monasteries and 6000 priests.
Tridev Roy, the Chakma chief, supported Pakistan during the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War; he then left the Chittagong region and settled in Pakistan.
Truck art has been called a "big business" in Pakistan, with around 250,000 people employed in the major centers as of 2014; one of the most prominent truck artists is Haider Ali.
Truck art has extended beyond the decoration and ornamentation of trucks into other forms and media.
Truck art in Hindi and Urdu is sometimes called Phool Patti.
Truck art in South Asia is a popular form of regional decoration, with trucks featuring elaborate floral patterns and calligraphy.
Truck art showcases a wide variety of symbols, from religious (mostly Islamic) motifs, poetic calligraphy and folklore to political messages and regional identity.
Trucks from Balochistan and Peshawar are often heavily trimmed with wood, while trucks from Rawalpindi and Islamabad often feature plastic work.
Tsot and tsochvor are small round breads topped with poppy and sesame seeds, which are crisp and flaky; sheermal, baqerkhayn (puff pastry), lavas (unleavened bread) and kulcha are also popular.
Tunisia celebrates Eid for three days (with preparations starting several days earlier), two of which are national holidays.
Turban of a thin cloth is also worn especially in rural areas of Punjab where it is called pagri.
Turning them away empty-handed is regarded as inauspicious.
Twisted pakols are common in the Pakistani province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Afghanistan and the Indian union territory of Jammu & Kashmir.
Two 14th-century wooden mosques in Gilgit-Baltistan are the Chaqchan Mosque in Khaplu (1370) and the Amburiq Mosque in Shigar.
Two Sufis whose shrines receive much national attention are Ali Hajweri in Lahore (ca.
Two groups were sent to China for Rod puppet training in 1975 and 1979 and a third was sent to Poland in 1987.
Two of Sri Lanka's current team, Chamara Kapugedera and Suranga Lakmal were on the bus during the 2009 terrorist attack, and both could have been selected for the T20I squad for this series.
Two sites were listed in 1981 and the most recent site added to the list was the Rohtas Fort, in 1997.
Two years later, the Company contracted Alexander Burnes to sail up the Indus to assess the feasibility of water travel for its army.
Typical ajrak colour schemes centre on deep indigo and crimson with white and black used to define geometric motifs.
UNESCO lists sites under ten criteria; each entry must meet at least one of the criteria.
Ultimately, he had to call for elections.
Umerkot district (52.15%) is the only Hindu majority district in Pakistan.
Under Akbar's successors, there was a shift towards more typically Islamic architectural designs.
Under Persian rule, a system of centralised administration, with a bureaucratic system, was introduced into the Indus Valley for the first time.
Under Sir Syed, the Scientific Society of Aligarh translated Western works only into Urdu.
Under his captaincy, Pakistan played their first ODI series against Bangladesh.
Under the 2017 Local Government Act of Punjab, Shahi Qila also serves as a union council located in the Ravi Zone.
Under the Delhi Sultan, the Persian-centralasiatic style ascended over Arab influences.
Under the Kushan Empire, Gāndhārī spread into adjoining regions of South and Central Asia.
Under the Kushans new Buddhist stupas were built and old ones were enlarged.
Under the new management, the Pakistan Football Federation phased out the National Football Championship, and in 2004 introduced the National A Division Football League, which contained 16 clubs.
Under the reign of Akbar (r. 1556–1605), the use of Hindu architectural elements was especially prolific, including in high-profile construction projects like Fatehpur Sikri.
Under the reign of Ashoka the Great, Chandragupta's grandson, the city was made a great seat of Buddhist learning, though the city was home to a minor rebellion during this time.
Understanding the complex lyrics of traditional ghazals required education typically available only to the upper classes.
Unequivocal literary references to betel only start appearing after the Vedic period, in works like Dipavaṃsa (c. 3rd century CE) and Mahāvaṃsa (c. 5th century).
University of Dental Medicine, Yangon records from 1985 to 1988 showed that 58.6% of oral carcinoma patients were regular betel chewers.
Unlike Pliny, these sources noted that the journey to Taxila from the Indus took three days and not two.
Unlike in a nazm, a ghazal's couplets do not need a common theme or continuity.
Unlike most of the Islamic world, where brick tended to predominate, India had highly skilled builders well used to producing stone masonry of extremely high quality.
Unlike most other Indo-Iranian languages, Pashto uses all three types of adpositions—prepositions, postpositions, and circumpositions.
Unlike the 12-note scale in Western music, the base frequency of the scale is not fixed, and intertonal gaps (temperament) may also vary.
Unlike the Red Fort and Agra Fort, Lahore Fort's ramparts were made of brick rather than red stone.
Unlike the buildings mentioned previously, it completely lacks carved texts, and sits in a compound with high walls and battlements.
Unlike the gardens in Kashmir which relied on naturally sloping landscapes, the waterworks in Lahore required extensive engineering to create artificial cascades and terraces.
Unresolved issues continue to pose challenges for both countries.
Until the 1970s, there were a large number of Punjabi-language films being produced by the Lollywood film industry, however since then Urdu has become a much more dominant language in film production.
Until the creation of the Balochi Standard Alphabet, it was by far the most widely used alphabet for writing Balochi, and is still used very frequently.
Until the early 1990s, members of the Punjab Assembly were forbidden to address the house in Punjabi.
Until the government of General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, "Islamic activists" were frustrated by the lack of "teeth" to enforce Islamic law in Pakistan's constitution.
Until the late 19th century, Hindustani classical music was imparted on a one-on-one basis through the guru-shishya ("mentor-protégé") tradition.
Until the late 19th century, all proceedings and court transactions in this register of Urdu were written officially in the Persian script.
Unusually for an Indo-Aryan language, Punjabi distinguishes lexical tones.
Up until recently, swimming struggled as a sport in Pakistan.
Up until then, it was only done by the Pakistan Army.
Upon Menander's death, the honor of sharing his remains was claimed by the cities under his rule, and they were enshrined in stupas, in a parallel with the historic Buddha.
Upon completion of each of the two years, they again take standardised tests in their subjects (HSSC-I and HSSC-II).
Upon completion of year 9, students are expected to take a standardised test in each of the first parts of their academic subjects (SSC-I).
Upon entering the city, the populace conveyed that their rebellion was not against Ashoka or Bindusara but rather against oppressive ministers.
Upon independence, there was a shortage of funds and filming equipment, which initially paralysed the film industry.
Upon successful completion of these examinations, students are awarded the Higher Secondary School Certificate (or HSSC).
Upon successful completion of these examinations, they are awarded a Secondary School Certificate (or SSC).
Upon the inflectional case is built a system of particles known as postpositions, which parallel English's prepositions.
Uppsala University offers a course titled Balochi A, which provides basic knowledge of the phonetics and syntax of the Balochi language.
Urban amenities such as drains and the public bath were no longer maintained, and newer buildings were "poorly constructed".
Urdu (اردو) is the national language (قومی زبان) and lingua franca of Pakistan.
Urdu Dictionary Board was established in 1958.
Urdu Science Board (USB) was established in 1962 as the “Central Board for the Development of Urdu” through a resolution.
Urdu Science Board has developed Urdu Science Encyclopedia consisting ten volumes.
Urdu and English replaced Persian as the official languages in northern parts of India in 1837.
Urdu and Turkish both borrowed from Arabic and Persian, hence the similarity in pronunciation of many Urdu and Turkish words.
Urdu became a literary language in the 18th century and two similar standard forms came into existence in Delhi and Lucknow.
Urdu dramas dominate the television entertainment industry, which has launched critically acclaimed miniseries and featured popular actors and actresses since the 1990s.
Urdu had been used as a literary medium for British colonial Indian writers from the Bombay, Bengal, Orissa, and Hyderabad State as well.
Urdu has borrowed words from Persian and to a lesser extent, Arabic through Persian, to the extent of about 25% to 30% of Urdu's vocabulary.
Urdu has played a central role in shaping Pakistan’s national identity, holding symbolic significance as a cultural identity in the country’s formation and as a common lingua franca.
Urdu has served as a lingua franca, especially among Muslims in north and northwest British India, as well as in Hyderabad State.
Urdu is a part of the Hindi–Urdu linguistic continuum, which is commonly referred to as Hindustani in contemporary usage.
Urdu is also seen as a repertory for the cultural and social heritage of Pakistan.
Urdu is associated with the Nastaʿlīq style of Persian calligraphy, whereas Arabic is generally written in the Naskh or Ruq'ah styles.
Urdu is read and written as in other parts of India.
Urdu is the sole national, and one of the two official languages of Pakistan (along with English).
Urdu is written right-to left in an extension of the Persian alphabet, which is itself an extension of the Arabic alphabet.
Urdu originated geographically in the upper Ganga-Yamuna doab, in and around the Delhi region, where Khari Boli was spoken.
Urdu poetry (Urdu: اُردُو شاعرى Urdū šāʿirī) is a tradition of poetry and has many different forms.
Urdu speakers have adopted Devanagari for publishing Urdu periodicals and have innovated new strategies to mark Urdu in Devanagari as distinct from Hindi in Devanagari.
Urdu speakers will often insert vowels to break up consonant clusters found in words of Sanskritic origin, but will pronounce them correctly in Arabic and Persian loanwords.
Urdu was chosen as a symbol of unity for the new Dominion of Pakistan in 1947, and it had already served as a lingua franca among Muslims in north and northwest of British Indian Empire.
Urdu words originating from Chagatai and Arabic were borrowed through Persian and hence are Persianised versions of the original words.
Urdu's use was not confined only to northern India – it had been used as a literary medium for Indian writers from the Bombay Presidency, Bengal, Orissa Province, and Tamil Nadu as well.
Urdu, Pakistan's national language and lingua franca, draws heavy influences from the Persian language (see Persian and Urdu).
Urdu[a] (اُرْدُو) is an Indo-Aryan language spoken primarily in South Asia.
Using draconian laws the government has also banned or officially silenced popular television channels.
Using knowledge for earning a living or for any selfish end was considered sacrilegious.
Using oppressive laws the government has also banned or officially silenced popular television channels.
Using these laws, Ayub Khan nationalised large parts of the press and took over one of the two largest news agencies.
Usual celebratory events and festivities for the day include flag-raising ceremonies, parades, cultural events, and the playing of patriotic songs.
Usually displayed less conspicuously, there were also wall painting depicting sexual or erotic themes.
Usually, bare transliterations of Urdu into Roman letters, Roman Urdu, omit many phonemic elements that have no equivalent in English or other languages commonly written in the Latin script.
Usually, the style and designs of wedding attire vary across different regions from north to the south among different ethnic communities.
Uttar Pradesh is known to have licensed bhang shops, and in many places, one can buy bhang products and drink bhang lassis.
Variations using filo, or flour tortillas are sometimes found.
Varieties include chocolate and banana or pizza.
Varieties of biryani have arisen in many countries, and was often spread to such places by South Asian diaspora populations.
Various American, European, Asian TV channels, and movies are available to a majority of the population via Cable TV.
Various Pakistani universities offer two-year M.Phil.
Various archaeological finds such as the Swastika symbol and Yogic postures from Indus Valley Civilization also point to early influences that may have shaped Hinduism.
Various clubs across the country also organize an event as well.
Various estimates suggest that there were about 1,500 Jews living in Pakistan at the time of its independence on 14 August 1947, with the majority living in Karachi and a few living in Peshawar.
Various kinds of pulses or legumes make up an important part of Pakistani cuisine.
Various monks were dispatched to different parts of the empire and the missionary dispatched to Gandhara specifically was Majjhantika who originated from the city of Varanasi in India.
Various other instruments have also been used in varying degrees.
Vedic art and culture grew in Kashmir, and some early Vedic hymns were composed there.
Vendors sell the dish in various markets and restaurants.
Very little (only about 12%) of the total national allocation to education goes to higher education with about 88% being spent on lower-level education.
Veteran stylist Tariq Amin was the creative and aesthetic consultant of KFW and, later, Islamabad Fashion Week.
Viceroy Mountbatten chose 15 August, the second anniversary of Japan's surrender in the World War II, as the date of power transfer.
Villagers reported abundance of fresh water for drinking and agriculture.
Vin bahs bā salāse-ye ghassāle miravad And with the three washers (cups of wine), this dispute goeth.
Vishnu Digambar Paluskar emerged as a talented musician and organizer despite being blind from age of 12.
Vishnu Digambar Paluskar in 1901 founded the Gandharva Mahavidyalaya, a school to impart formal training in Hindustani classical music with some historical Indian Music.
Vital Signs is widely regarded as Pakistan's first and most successful pop rock band.
Vocal music set to this mode of poetry is popular with multiple variations across Central Asia, the Middle East, as well as other countries and regions of the world.
Volleyball enjoys huge popularity in small towns and villages across Pakistan, particularly in the northern province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Vowel nasalisation is distinctive: /'ʈuɾẽ/ 'may you go' vs. /'ʈuɾe/ 'may he go'.
WAPDA became the inaugural champions, with Army finishing second and KRL third.
Waar (Wār; IPA: [ʋɑːr], meaning "The Strike") was the winner of 2013.
Waee music is also referred to as kafi and is also found in the neighbouring Punjab.
Wahab's spell was praised despite not picking up many wickets.
Waheed Murad was picturised in a song for the first time ever in director Saqlain Rizvi's Mamta, released in 1963.
Warrior culture typically elevates the value of the community's honour (izzat), which is highly esteemed by Punjabis.
Wasim Akram at the time of his retirement had taken the most wickets in ODIs.
Wasim Akram stated that although the decision was surprising, if Misbah bats and fields well everything else will go according to plan.
Waste water was channeled to covered drains that lined the major streets.
Water collected into a large pool, known as a haūz, over which a seating pavilion was made.
Wazir Khan also commissioned the Shahi Hammam; the baths were built to serve as a waqf, or endowment, for the maintenance of the Wazir Khan Mosque.
We are standing at the edge of our limit.
We have already seen above that the great brick tank, interpreted by Rao as a dock at Lothal, cannot yet be certainly identified.
We have taken many steps forward for the sake of Hindu-Muslim unity.
We regard either interpretation as still unproven, but favour the latter.
We shall not now take another step forward.
Wealthy Muslims in Bangladesh also distribute Zakat alms to the poor people.
Web news channels also appeared from mostly after 2010.
Were but the Afghans, in intellect, a little discreet.
West Indies were bowled out for 227 in their second innings but the series went to them by 3–1.
West Indies won the toss and elected to bat first.
What is clear is that Harappan society was not entirely peaceful, with the human skeletal remains demonstrating some of the highest rates of injury (15.5%) found in South Asian prehistory.
What prompted this shift was the military's experience during the two past confrontations with India.
What scholars do agree on is the fact that Pashto is an Eastern Iranian language sharing characteristics with Eastern Middle Iranian languages such as Bactrian, Khwarezmian and Sogdian.
Wheel-made pottery—some of it adorned with animal and geometric motifs—has been found in profusion at all the major Indus sites.
When I first saw them I found it difficult to believe that they were prehistoric; they seemed to completely upset all established ideas about early art, and culture.
When Jinnah died, Islamic scholar Maulana Shabbir Ahmad Usmani described Jinnah as the greatest Muslim after the Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb and also compared Jinnah's death to the Muhammad's passing.
When Xuanzang visited Gandhara in c. 630 CE, he reported that Buddhism had drastically declined in favour of Shaivism and that most of the monasteries were deserted and left in ruins.
When Xuanzang visited Gandhara in c. 630 CE, he reported that Buddhism had drastically declined, and that most of the monasteries were deserted and left in ruins.
When chewed with additional tobacco in its preparation (like in gutka), there is an even higher risk for cancer, especially for oral and oropharyngeal cancers.
When chewed with additional tobacco in its preparation (like in gutka), there is an even higher risk, especially for oral and oropharyngeal cancers.
When consulting sources before 2000, it is important to know that Pakistani administrative boundaries have been altered frequently.
When meat is used, it is no longer called qottab.
When plucking, it is a rule to leave at least sixteen leaves on the vine.
When preceding Eid al-Adha and during the Eid and Tashreeq days, Muslims recite the takbir.
When showing respect to elders or asking for forgiveness, people, especially newlyweds place a pair of paan-tamul on a xorai, place it in front of the elders and bow to show respect.
When the Abbasid caliphate began to disintegrate, the delta came under the control of the increasingly autonomous province centered at Mansura.
When the East India Company took over Punjab in 1849, they discovered precious stones wrapped in bits of rags and placed in velvet purses scattered inside the mosque, along with other inventory.
When the Indus civilisation went into sudden decline c. 1900 BCE, Mohenjo-daro was abandoned.
When the great ancient trade routes connecting these regions ceased to be important, the city sank into insignificance and was finally destroyed in the 5th century by the invading Hunas.
When the raider scores 10 or more raid points in a single match, it is called a super 10, and they earn an extra point.
When this occurs can sometimes differ depending on the regional government.
When this water retreats, it leaves behind salts in the delta's soil.
When women wear the shalwar-kameez in some regions, they usually wear a long scarf or shawl called a dupatta around the head or neck.
Where families are welcoming newly-weds and newborns, the requests for treats increases.
Whereas the Ahmadis have literacy rate slightly higher than the national average.
Whether it's spoken in fancy places or sung in everyday life, its powerful words touch deep inside, staying with us for a long time.
Which was followed by Microsoft Translator strengthening support in May of same year.
While Bollywood films were banned from public cinemas from 1965 until 2008, they have remained an important part of popular culture.
While Buddhism declined and ultimately disappeared after Arab conquest mainly due to conversion of almost all of the Buddhist population of Sindh to Islam.
While Marshall's work has earned some support, many critics and even supporters have raised several objections.
While Pakistan's Independence Day celebrates its freedom from British rule, the Republic Day celebrates the coming into force of its constitution.
While Urdu retained the grammar and core Indo-Aryan vocabulary of the local Indian dialect Khariboli, it adopted the Perso-Arab writing system, written in the Nastaleeq style.
While government tried to interfere, one important cross road came with Television and their after digital media.
While lentils (called daal) and chickpeas (called channa/chanay ki daal) are popular ingredients in homestyle cooking, they are traditionally considered to be inexpensive food sources.
While madrasas represent a small portion of the overall education system, their influence is significant, especially in regions where the state education system is failing.
While many elements overlap, every province and ethnicity have nuanced approaches to the garments.
While many of its functions have been devolved to provincial governments in Pakistan, several institutes continue to operate under its federal oversight.
While minarets are conspicuously absent in most mosques, the Firoz Minar was built in Gauda to commemorate Bengali military victories.
While primarily Sufi, his verses also recount traditional Sindhi folktales and aspects of the cultural history of Sindh.
While raiding, the raider must loudly chant kabaddi, confirming to referees that their raid is done on a single breath without inhaling.
While some individuals find the term "South Asian" inclusive and encompassing, others feel it does not fully capture their specific backgrounds.
While some scholars, such as Al-Kasani, categorise the sacrifice as obligatory (wāǧib), others regard it only as an "established custom" (sunna mu'akkada).
While the cultures are different, the key values of celebration remain the same.
While the initial generations may have been rooted in cultural traditions outside India, they gradually adopted many aspects from the Hindu culture from their kingdoms.
While the mosque likely served as a Friday congregational mosque for members of the Royal Court, it was not financed by Jahangir, although it likely required his approval.
While the new census showed that it had only risen to 3.5 million in 20 years," which throws a light possibility of undercounting Hindu population.
While the plant is not enough to meet the needs of the entire village, Pakistan's Ministry of Science and other NGOs have shown interest in replicating it to alleviate water shortages in the delta.
While the regulatory framework ensures accountability and responsible broadcasting, it has also sparked discussions about the delicate balance between regulation and freedom of the press.
While traditionally rooted in poetry, the ghazal in Pakistan has evolved to become closely associated with music.
Wildlife in Pakistan is confronting a critical situation, marked by the dwindling populations of numerous species.
With 31 runs needed in the last three overs, Miandad hit a string of boundaries while batting with his team's lower order, until four runs were required from the last delivery of the match.
With 38 letters, the Urdu alphabet is typically written in the calligraphic Nasta'liq script.
With a capacity of 34,000, it is the largest cricket stadium of Pakistan.
With clothes Sindhi men wore Sindhi Patko, Pagg or Phento (turbans), youngsters wore Sindhi cap, men carried Ajrak or any other locally made shawls/handkerchief were carried on shoulders.
With each slap, the piece of dough is rotated.
With privatization of television stations in full swing, a new channel Filmazia began airing old Pakistani films as well as newer low budget productions.
With regards to Hindu architecture, local Rajput palaces were likely a key influence.
With that, under heavy security, PCB planned World XI tour to Pakistan for three T20Is.
With the advance of films and other public media, musicians started to make their living through public performances.
With the advent of domestic List A and T20 forms of cricket in the 1970s and 2000s, there has been no consistent set up (as has been noted for first class cricket in Pakistan).
With the collapse of the Indus Valley civilization the architecture also suffered considerable damage.
With the dawn of the internet and globalization, this poetry is often found written in Roman Urdu as well as in Hindi script.
With the excavations done so far, over 700 wells are present at Mohenjo-daro, alongside drainage and bathing systems.
With the flight of Zoroastrians from Greater Iran into the Indian subcontinent, the Parsi communities were established.
With the governments of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and Zia ul-Haq, more stringently Islamic laws transformed Pakistan.
With the greatest concentration of the highest peaks of the world many of them very challenging climbs, Pakistan is a prime location for skilled mountain climbers.
With the help of a Jataka, he had interpreted it to be the place where Gautama Buddha—during a previous birth as Pusa or Chandaprabha—cut off his head to feed a hungry lion.
With the inadequate education and skills, poor health conditions and lack of access to resources actually decrease the quality of female's life.
With the inception of the newly formed league, provincial and divisional teams were phased out from the top tier.
With the little improvement done by the government, people have started to believe that parents prefer to educate boys rather than girls.
With this match, Pakistan lost their defended World T20 title.
With time, it adapted for musical presentation, becoming shorter.
With tobacco it also raises the risk of fatal coronary artery disease, fatal stroke, and adverse reproductive effects including stillbirth, premature birth and low birth weight.
Within Pakistan and Afghanistan, there are different types of pakol worn by various ethnic groups and regions.
Within South Asia, implosives were first described for Sindhi by Stake in 1855.
Within both Afghanistan and Pakistan, one of the oldest recorded traditions of Pashtun society is Jirgas, or tribal councils.
Within the city, individual homes or groups of homes obtained water from wells.
Within the river delta, about 140,000 people (16% of the population) depended on the mangrove forests for their livelihood, and 60% depended on the forests for fuels.
Without a typical dome, the mosque is shaped like a Bedouin tent, surrounded by four 90 m (300 ft)-tall minarets.
Women and girls also put henna on each other's hands.
Women and girls decorate their hands with mehndi (henna), and people prepare desserts for the next day of Eid and do last rounds of shopping.
Women are also depicted fondling pets or writing love letters in these wall paintings.
Women used to be excluded from traditional Muslim music, since they are traditionally prohibited from singing in the presence of men.
Women wear long, colorful traditional clothing similar to the Khet Partoog.
Women who chew areca nut formulations, such as paan, during pregnancy significantly increase adverse outcomes for the baby.
Women would wear special clothes for the occasion along with special perfumes and braids.
Women's cricket developed later in Pakistan with the women's national team playing their first match in 1997.
Women's cricket is also very popular, with Kiran Baluch holding the current record for the highest score in a women's test match with her innings of 242.
Women's cycling also takes place in the country.
Wood and loam served as construction materials.
Works and efforts by the Basic Principles Committee drafted the basic outlines of the constitution in 1949.
Works by Noam Chomsky have influenced philosophical ideas in various fields of social and political philosophy.
Worn in Waziristan, this type of pakol is usually and almost uniquely worn by the Pashtuns of Waziristan such as the Mahsud, Dawar, and Wazir tribes.
Worshipers attend a dawn prayer and a sermon, after which people visit each other, plan gatherings and give gifts to children.
Wreaths are also laid at the mausoleums of Allama Sir Muhammad Iqbal and Quaid-i-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah, founder of Pakistan.
Wrestling has always been an important sport in Pakistan, with regular tournaments played locally.
Writing in 1317–1318, Amir Khusrau referred to the language spoken by locals around the area of Lahore as Lahauri.
Written in Gāndhārī Prakrit, they are the oldest Buddhist manuscripts yet discovered (c. 1st century CE).
Xuanzang visited India between 629 and 645 CE.
Xuanzang wrote that numerous monasteries in north-western Indian subcontinent had been reduced to ruins by the Huns.
Yet, the primary medium of education in government schools in Pakistan is Urdu.
You must secure admission in such an institution, upon the completion of high school, i.e.
Young children prepare a replica of a peacock which is known as Chajja.
Young girls and women apply henna "tattoo"s on their hands and feet.
Young maidens traditionally carry ornamental betel boxes on a stand called kundaung and gilded flowers (pandaung) in a shinbyu (novitiation) procession.
Yuva Kabaddi Series (YKS) is a franchise-based junior-category kabaddi tournament in India.
Yuva Kabaddi Series was founded by uMumba CEO Suhail Chandhok and Vikas Kumar Gautam.
Zakat charitable donations became a 2.5% annual tax.
Zebu cattle are still common in India, and in Africa.
Zee Entertainment Enterprises (ZEEL) launched an entertainment television channel, Zindagi, on 23 June 2014.
Zia Ul Haq had strongly denounced "western ideas" such as jeans and rock music.
Zia also introduced the Sharia as a basis for lawmaking, reinforced by Nawaz Sharif in 1991.
Zia bolstered the influence of the ulama (Islamic clergy) and the Islamic parties, whilst conservative scholars became fixtures on television.
Zia established separate Shariat judicial courts and court benches to judge legal cases using Islamic doctrine.
Zia's regime sought to implement a conservative Islamic agenda, which came with strict bans and restrictions on musical expression across the country.
Zia's state sponsored Islamization increased sectarian divisions in Pakistan between Sunnis and Shias and between Deobandis and Barelvis.
Zia-ul Haq banned three works promoting the Punjabi language.
Zia-ul-Haq committed himself to establishing an Islamic state and enforcing sharia law.
Zia-ul-Haq forged a strong alliance between the military and Deobandi institutions.
Zinda Bhaag went on to be Pakistan's official submission to the Oscars, the first after a gap of fifty years but did not make the final shortlist nominees.
Zindagi Gulzar Hai became so popular that it was re-run one month after it ended its initial run in India.
[Dupatta] is also used by some women when entering a mosque, dargah, where they cover their head with a dupatta while entering such places.
[However], some people, instead of increasing thanks, have increased innovations on it.
[a] For this reason, IVC is sometimes called the "Harappan civilisation," a term more commonly used by the Archaeological Survey of India after decolonization in 1947.
[a] However, Seraiki and Siraiki have also been used in academia until recently.
[a] In Sindh the Sindhi alphabet is used.
[a] The term kabaddi is from a Tamil word composed of "Kai" and "Pidi", meaning "to hold hands".
[a] Together with ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia, it was one of three early civilisations of the Near East and South Asia.
[better source needed] And in the first census afterward (1951), Hindus made up 1.6% of the total population of West Pakistan, and 22% of East Pakistan.
[better source needed] Starting from the first day of Dhul-Hijjah, temporary cattle markets, known as haat begin to appear across Bangladesh.
[c] According to a theory first advanced by Wheeler, the city could have been flooded and silted over, perhaps six times, and later rebuilt in the same location.
[c] Eid al-Fitr is celebrated by Muslims worldwide as it marks the end of the month-long, dawn-to-dusk fasting (sawm) during Ramadan.
[c] The city is divided into two parts, the so-called Citadel and the Lower City.
[c] The discovery of Harappa and soon afterwards Mohenjo-daro was the culmination of work that had begun after the founding of the Archaeological Survey of India in the British Raj in 1861.
[circular reference] Thus far the women's national team has not won an ICC or ACC international tournament.
[d] Mohenjo-daro and Harappa very likely grew to contain between 30,000 and 60,000 individuals, and the civilisation may have contained between one and five million individuals during its florescence.
[dubious – discuss] A comparison of available objects indicates large scale variation across the Indus territories.
[dubious – discuss] In the Gandhara region, Greco-Buddhist art and sculptures flourished.
[h] In Sindh the Sindhi alphabet is used.
[h] The Harappan language is not directly attested, and its affiliations are uncertain, as the Indus script has remained undeciphered.
[l] It also causes the long vowels to shorten but remain peripheral, distinguishing them from the central vowels /ə, ɪ, ʊ/.
[m][n] In the following millennia, settled life made inroads into the Indus plains, setting the stage for the growth of rural and urban settlements.
[o] The more organised sedentary life, in turn, led to a net increase in the birth rate.
[page needed] According to this thought, the bestowal of such a gift required thanks, which came in the form of the celebration of the mawlid.
[page needed] However, the style of Urdu spoken on a day-to-day basis in Pakistan is akin to neutral Hindustani that serves as the lingua franca of the northern Indian subcontinent.
[page needed] In addition to these eight vowels, Balochi has two vowel glides, that is /aw/ and /aj/.
[page needed] The consonants /s/, /z/, /n/, /ɾ/ and /l/ are articulated as alveolar in Western Balochi.
[page needed] The only limitation Ibn Hajar places on forms of celebration is that they must be neutral under Shari’a.
[q] During this period the death rate increased, as the close living conditions of humans and domesticated animals led to an increase in contagious diseases.
[r] According to one estimate, the population of the Indus civilisation at its peak may have been between one and five million.
[u] Some speculated that the Ghaggar-Hakra system might yield more sites than the Indus river basin.
[w] Mehrgarh is one of the earliest sites with evidence of farming and herding in South Asia.
], and gained prominence in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, thanks to such Persian poets as Rumi and Hafiz, and later to Indian poets such as Mirza Ghalib.
]This is the first GCC LED lit cricket stadium that uses innovative and advanced control systems and DMX Technology .
a hand-mill as being derived from the Ancient Greek word μηχανή (mēkhanḗ, i.e.
a left-handed percussionist would play the tabla with his left hand).
and BE in their related discipline after DAE.
and Bihar who supported the All India Muslim League.
and considers Muhammad's date of birth as a particularly blessed time of the year.
and was about the intertwined stories of numerous characters who are all struggling with their problems, and who somehow connect on a unifying level.
and western neighbors proceeded up the Persian Gulf rather than overland.
andáde ofte asi elo ton ílumí e vaddifoí e.
by the influence of Sufi mystics and the courts of the new Islamic sultanates[unreliable source?].
call a yoga-like pose (see image, the so-called Pashupati, below).
cannot distinguish linguistic systems from non-linguistic ones.
document intensive caravan trade with Central Asia and the Iranian plateau.
ft. featuring several exhibit halls, making it the largest museum in Pakistan.
ghar > kàr "house", ḍhōl > ṭṑl "drum" etc.
had an Eid prayer on their pitch in 2022.
have also demonstrated that a comparison of a non-linguistic system like medieval heraldic signs with natural languages yields results similar to those that Rao et al.
kids receive gifts from parents and elderly relatives, usually money or even toys.
namidanam chi manzil būd shab jayi ke man būdam; be har sū raqs eh besmel būd shab jayi ke man būdam.
next match was against India, which always given a much publicity by all over the fans.
on 15 November 1947, around 3,680 non-Muslims (including Sikhs) remained in West Punjab immediately after partition that occurred three months prior on 15 August 1947.
or MS degree programs in Arts, Science, and Technology for graduates who have completed 16-year schooling (BS or master's degrees) in their relevant field.
pari paikar negar eh sarv qaad e lalhaa rokhsar; sarapa afat-e del būd shab jayi ke man būdam.
partially excavated Rakhigarhi, this urban plan included the world's first known city sanitation systems.
remains, but none can be conclusively identified as A. catechu and their association with betel peppers is tenuous or nonexistent.
schist and granite) which resulted compatible with the outcrops located in the mountains northwest of Islamabad.
small numbers of converts to Anglicanism, Methodism, Lutheranism and Catholicism from the native populations.
the 3rd fastest century in ODIs, and the highest number of sixes in international cricket.
the British system equivalent being O-levels.
the semantic role of a nominal as an argument to a verb) are indicated using postpositions, which follow a noun in the oblique case.
there has been an increase in the demand for Ajrak, leading to increased use outside of the traditional sense.
to create a solid bloc of all Muslim states from Karachi to Ankara, from Pakistan to Morocco.
to have been invented by Bhim Chandra Nag on the occasion of a visit by Lady Canning, the wife of Charles Canning, the Governor-General of India during 1856–62.
to have ended in disaster for the Muslims, as Bahadur Shah Zafar, the last Mughal, was deposed.
towards everything modern and western, and a disinclination to make use of the opportunities available under the new regime.
while some Sindhi women wore long thobe like dresses called Jubo in Sindhi, and other Sindhi women wore frocks called (Ghagho, Abho or Fairak) in Sindhi.
while underneath the Angelo, Pehran and Khamis men wear Ganji (vest) which is also heavily embroidered with Sindhi stitches and mirrors.
Āth darā, an elevated pavilion with eight openings, was built by Maharaja Ranjit Singh for use as his court.
اَندَادے وفتے اَسِ اےلو تون اِىلُمِى اے وَدِّفوئِى اے.
مُچَّا اِنسَاںک آجو او اِزَّت نَا رِد اَٹ بَرےبَر وَدِى مَسُّنو.
میں پاکستان کا شہری پاکستان کا مالک ھوں, the film extols the principle of Government of the people, by the people and for the people.
نیاݨا /ɲaːɳaː/ (preserved ñ) as opposed to کنج /kiɲd͡ʒ/ (assimilated into nj).
پلاز plâz 'throne' with تخت takht, from Persian.
ڇوڪِرو جو پِيءُ‎ छोकिरो जो पीउ chokiro j-o pīu "the boy's father" but ڇوڪِر جِي مَاءُ‎ छोकिरो जी माउ chokiro j-ī māu "the boy's mother".
– which was developed as a style of Persian calligraphy.
“Malik Riaz's case proved that the media can hold the judiciary and even itself accountable", says Javed Chaudhry, columnist and anchorperson working with Express News.
