": 174 "Besides actual conversion, Islam has had a considerable influence on the Hindu religion.
"Beautiful Land") and "Jeevay, Jeevay Pakistan" (lit.
"But we all have very nasty fears that the flows of the Indus could be severely, severely affected by glacier melt as a consequence of climate change," and reduced by perhaps as much as 50 per cent.
"But we need to be concerned about that.
"Chen" refers to any object found in abundance.
"Hab river emerges from mountains near Zahri village of Jhalawan, and flows along the border of Sindh and Lasbela for 60 miles and discharges into the Arabian Sea near Ras Monzi.
"In other parts of the Province, too, traces of Hindu festivals are noticeable among the Muhammadans.
"Modern" superalpinism was brought to Nanga Parbat in 1988 with an unsuccessful attempt or two on the Rupal Face by Barry Blanchard, Mark Twight, Ward Robinson, and Kevin Doyle.
"North-West Frontier Province" is semantically non-descript and socially wrongful.
"Nyimaling-Tso Morari Metamorphic Dome" in the Ladakh region, the "Tethys Himalaya synclinorium" passes gradually to the north in a large dome of greenschist to eclogitic metamorphic rocks.
"Sia" in the Balti language refers to the rose family plant widely dispersed in the region.
"Thar" on the other hand refers to the arid and dry nature of the surrounding landscape, reminiscent of the Thar Desert, which lies just to the east of the Indus River.
"The secretaries were more powerful than the concerned advisors," in the words of one commentator.
"There is insufficient data to say what will happen to the Indus," says David Grey, the World Bank's senior water advisor in South Asia.
"You are free; you are free to go to your temples, you are free to go to your mosques or to any other place of worship in this State of Pakistan.
"long-live, long-live Pakistan"), were composed by Bengali singer Shahnaz Rahmatullah in the 1970s and 1980s.
'Bone breaker';Urdu: بالتورو گلیشیر) is a glacier located in the Shigar District of the Gilgit-Baltistan, Pakistan.
'Deosai' (Shina: دیوسای٘) consists of two Shina words 'deo' ('giant') and 'sai' (shadow'), meaning the 'shadow of giant' or the 'land of giant'.
'Gateway of Islam'), as it was one of the first regions of the Indian subcontinent to fall under Islamic rule.
'Many writers have different opinions about the name of Jhelum.
'The River Sindh'), contrasting to the Province of Sindh (Urdu: صوبہِ سندھ, romanized: Sūba-i-sindh).
'king of snow') 'The Land of Snow' (གངས་ཅན་ལྗོངས་) in Tibetan, or Parvateshwara (Sanskrit: पर्वतेश्वर, lit.
'white'), also used to describe the clear water of the Swat River.
(1) The Kurram expedition of 1856 under Brigadier-General Sir Neville Chamberlain.
(2) The Kohat-Kurram expedition of 1897 under Colonel W. Hill.
): Current Status and Conservation, Part 1 of Advances in Marine Biology, PhD marine biologist, Thomas A. Jefferson outlines some of the environmental consequences suffered by the Balochistan coast.
... just the bare bones of a name, all rock and ice and storm and abyss.
1,732 (0.49% of the surveyed population) are religious minorities, mainly Christians and some Hindus.
12 Sikh Misls along with Muslim Chattha, Sial, Tarar, Chisti and Gakhar States fought for political acedency.
14 Squadron Tail Choppers, was active in East Pakistan.
159,100 (44.75% of the surveyed population) are under 10 years of age.
1797 BC, the course of the Sutlej river moved towards the north to join the Beas river.
2,642 (0.34%) people in the district were from religious minorities, mainly Christians.
2.3.6 Daraham Sir Lake Lake Daraham Sir is a glacial lake situated to the left of Babusar Top at an altitude of approximately 4,100 meters in the Western Himalayas at an elevation of 4,058 meters.
20 cm/yr, a plate velocity that exceeds any modern example.
2005 saw a resurgence of lightweight, alpine-style attempts on the Rupal Face.
2010 July floods swept 20% of Pakistan's land, the flood is the result of unprecedented Monsoon rains which lasted from 28 July to 31 July 2010.
2020 community estimates indicated the Sikh population in Sindh stood at approximately 10,000, while the 2023 census indicated a population of 5,182 Sikhs.
25 million years ago, the Indus Plain was lifted.
275,458 (35.07% of the surveyed population) are under 10 years of age.
3,994 water supply systems were destroyed.
40Ar/39Ar ages of 115 to 120 million years ago obtained from and geochemical analyses of the K2 Gneiss demonstrate that it is an older, metamorphosed, pre-collisional Cretaceous granite.
45 avian species are found in the Khunjerab National Park.
45% of infant deaths are due to diarrhea and 60% to overall waterborne diseases.
5 cm/yr following the collision, yet India continued to protrude into Asia for more than 2000 km.
5% of Pakistan's land is covered in forest (2024).
53% of Pakistanis felt that their lives had become worse off than they were five years ago.
54,784 reported cases were recorded from all 77 districts in seven provinces.
5Q 131 05 084 was the number assigned to the Siachen glacier by the expedition.
80,000 ($760) and all of the birds he caught were set free for hunting without permit and license.
808,888 (30.11% of the surveyed population) were under 10 years of age.
81% of the desert is sandy, while 19% is characterized by alluvial flats and small sandy dunes.
85% of the Thar Desert is in India, and the remaining 15% is in Pakistan.
9.2 The claim of Punjab and Haryana regarding the shares in their remaining waters shall be referred for adjudication to a Tribunal to be presided over by Supreme Court Judge.
93% of the water of the Indus Basin is used for irrigation of agricultural land.
: 163 Disturbances in the region increased as the war continued.
: 82 This has brought into question whether an actual vote took place.
A $114 million desalination plant will also be developed to provide potable water, while $35 million worth of infrastructure projects around the special economic zone will also be built.
A 1986 expedition led by George Wallerstein made an inaccurate measurement showing that K2 was taller than Mount Everest, and therefore the tallest mountain on Earth.
A 2014 remote sensing study suggested the situation of glaciers in Pakistan varies between regions of the country.
A 2021 documentary records the background for the 2019 Nardi/Ballard attempt.
A 72-kilometre (45 mi) stretch of the Ravi River from Lahore Siphon to Baloki headworks indicates heavy contamination of the water and sediment with Cd, Cr, Pt, and Cu.
A Muslim intellectual movement, led by Sir Syed Ahmed Khan to counter the Hindu renaissance, advocated for the two-nation theory and led to the establishment of the All-India Muslim League in 1906.
A Pashto dialect is spoken in two villages (Dhaki and Changnar) that are situated on the Line of Control.
A Southern Oscillation Index (SOI), based on the pressure difference between Tahiti and Darwin, has been formulated by the Bureau of Meteorology (Australia) to measure the strength of the oscillation.
A UNDP funded special programme was launched in 2006 to address the issue in both countries.
A barrage on Panjnad has been erected which provides irrigation channels for Punjab and Sindh provinces south of the Sutlej River and east of the Indus River.
A beautiful cloth called Sufi is also woven of silk and cotton, or with cotton wrap and silk wool.
A canal system built during the British era led to irrigation of the northern part of Lesser Cholistan.
A civil disobedience movement erupted across East Pakistan demanding the convening of parliament.
A committee later conducted a survey of the area, but it was not until 1954 that geologists fully inspected the project area.
A common phrase during British colonial period described the length of what was then British India as "Khyber to Kanyakumari".
A common threshold is to define a mountain as a summit with 300 m prominence (1,000 ft; also 10 traditional rope lengths).
A comprehensive constitution emerged in 1973, suspended by Zia-ul-Haq in 1977 but reinstated in 1985, shaping the country's governance.
A comprehensive evaluation of the corridor's potential remains challenging until Pakistan addresses its political and security challenges.
A corrected measurement was made in 1987, but by then the claim that K2 was the tallest mountain in the world had already made it into many news reports and reference works.
A critical influence on the Himalayan climate is the Southwest Monsoon.
A deputy commissioner (popularly abbreviated to "DC") is the executive head of the district.
A detailed account of his reign is available in the Tarikh-i-Mubarak Shahi written by Yahya-bin-Ahmad Sirhindi.
A district council (or zila council) is a local government body at the district level.
A drawback of a prominence-based list is that it may exclude peaks commonly thought of as mountains that are connected via a high ridge to a taller summit.
A few dozen families also live in Kotli, Poonch, and Bagh.
A few endangered species in this desert are the Chinkara Antelope, Great Indian Bustard, and Blue Bull, etc.
A fit person can easily complete the track in 6–8 hours including breaks.
A floating liquefied natural gas facility will also be built at Gwadar Port as part of the $2.5 billion Gwadar-Nawabshah segment of the Iran–Pakistan gas pipeline.
A floristic checklist of the Thal desert observed that Poaceae was the main family with 52 species.
A force of 14,230 British troops traversed the country, and the tribesmen were severely punished.
A form of band music composed of clarinets (Surnai) and drums is popular in Chitral.
A full list showing different characteristics of each district, such as their population, area, and a map showing their location can be found at the main article.
A further link from the Beas River to the Sutlej River by the Beas Sutlej Link augments storage of the Bhakra reservoir in India.
A good monsoon results in better agricultural yields, which brings down prices of essential food commodities and reduces imports, thus reducing food inflation overall.
A government webpage lists these as Ashwat, Qamar Din Karez, Sambaza and Zhob, without indicating if any of them are sub-tehsils.
A gradual drying of the region during the 3rd millennium BC may have been the initial stimulus for its urbanisation.
A herd of almost 75 Marco Polo sheep was recorded in the spring of 1984 and park staff saw at least 50 crossing the pass in May 1989.
A high of 53.7 °C (128.66 °F) was recorded in Turbat, Balochistan on 28 May 2017.
A high-pressure area over Ukraine and neighbourhood consolidates, causing the intrusion of cold air from polar regions towards an area of relatively warmer air with high moisture.
A host of mosquito-borne, water-borne and air-borne infections become more common as a result of the change in the ecosystem.
A land-use plan for the city of Muzaffarabad was prepared by the Japan International Cooperation Agency.
A large canal-building project is currently underway to irrigate the land.
A large green meadow has a few running streams near the camp and many places to spend the day rock climbing or rappelling.
A large number are also being supported by the UN in camps for internally displaced persons (IDPs) in Kandahar Province.
A large number of Baloch settlers arrived and the towns of Dera Ghazi Khan and Dera Ismail Khan were founded.
A large number of IDPs were settled within the confines of the district as part of the evacuation from Operation Zarb-e-Azb that took place to the north of Zhob.
A large number of Sindhi Hindus travelled to India by sea, to the ports of Bombay, Porbandar, Veraval and Okha.
A large part of the drainage basin is mountainous, and around 40% of its area lies above an elevation of 2,000 m (6,600 ft).
A late medieval Persian manuscript, Kaigoharnameh, written by Raezadeh Diwan Duni Chand in A.D. 1725 to the order of Gakhar chiefs presents a detailed history of Gakhars in northern Punjab.
A later form of Askikni was Iskamati (Sanskrit: इस्कामति) and the Greek form was Ancient Greek: Ἀκεσίνης – Akesínes; Latinized to Acesines.
A major earthquake centered in the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa's Kohistan District in 1965 also caused heavy damage.
A major earthquake centred in the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa's Kohistan District in 1965 also caused heavy damage.
A major earthquake in 2005 killed at least 100,000 people and left another three million people displaced, causing widespread devastation to the region's infrastructure and economy.
A major oil reserve has been discovered near Jhelum in Punjab, opening up a new area for exploitation of hydrocarbon potential (e.g., Meyal Field).
A majority of the runoff in the Indus drainage basin comes from meltwater—glacial melt contributing 41% and snowmelt providing 22%—of the Himalaya, Hindu Kush and Karakorum mountains.
A man-made forest called Dingarh was developed by the Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources (PCRWR) on more than 100 ha.
A marked acceleration in glacial mass loss has also been observed since 1975, from about 5–13 Gt/yr to 16–24 Gt/yr.
A metalled road runs alongside the railway that connects Quetta to Karachi via the nearby town of Sibi to Jacobabad and Rohri in the plain of the River Indus.
A narrow strip of Afghanistan territory called the Wakhan Corridor extends between Pakistan and Tajikistan.
A new form of transport in Pakistan is the Qing-Qi (pronounced "ching-chee"), which is a cross between a motorcycle and auto-rickshaw.
A new waterfall also formed at the edge of the Kunhar River valley.
A notable example of a religious site is Paro Taktsang, where Padmasambhava is said to have founded Buddhism in Bhutan.
A number of Punjabis during the colonial period of India became Christians, with all of these religions characterizing the religious diversity now found in the Punjab region.
A point where mountain ranges with different directions of extension, and thus formed by tectonic forces at varying angles, converge is called a syntaxis (Greek: convergence).
A position of 'Deputy Chief Executive' was created to act as the local administrator, but the real powers still rested with the 'Chief Executive', who was the Federal Minister of KANA.
A positive IOD index often negates the effect of ENSO, resulting in increased monsoon rains in years such as 1983, 1994, and 1997.
A power station is located adjacent to the refinery.
A primary reason for this state of affairs was the remoteness of Gilgit-Baltistan.
A probe later found that the Americans had mistakenly concluded that the Pakistani soldiers, who had fired warning shots at the helicopters, were insurgents.
A proposal for building a storage dam on the Ravi River was initially planned in 1912, envisaging a 61 metres (200 ft) high dam.
A provisional government (Aburi Hakoomat) was established by the Gilgit locals with Raja Shah Rais Khan as the president and Mirza Hassan Khan as the commander-in-chief.
A railway through the region has been proposed; see Khunjerab Railway for details.
A recent assessment of the monsoonal changes indicate that the land warming has increased during 2002–2014, possibly reviving the strength of the monsoon circulation and rainfall.
A recent global remote sensing analysis suggested that there were 1,575 km2 of tidal flats in Pakistan, making it the 20th ranked country in terms of how much tidal flat occurs there.
A recent study (Parija et al, 2021) sought to quantify the Coulomb Stress Transfer in the Western Himalayas.
A severe drought in 1998 caused the displacement of approximately 100,000 nomadic people from the Registan desert region.
A severe quake in 1931 was followed by an even more destructive one in 1935.
A severe quake in 1931 was followed by one of more destructive force in 1935.
A significant number of people from Gilgit-Baltistan are residing in other parts of Pakistan, mainly in Punjab and Karachi.
A sixteen-parameter monsoon forecasting model used since 1988 was replaced in 2003.
A small Armenian and Jewish minority resided in East Pakistan.
A small wharf at Gwadar was completed in 1992, and formal proposals for a deep sea port at Gwadar were unveiled a year later in 1993.
A song Brothers on Diamir by Austrian band Edenbridge is based on the Messner brothers' ascent of Nanga Parbat.
A street in E-7 sector, Islamabad, is called Gomal Road.
A strong easterly tropical jet results in a strong southwest monsoon over central India, and a weak jet results in a weak monsoon.
A study showed that on one of Karachi's main roads, the average noise level was around 90 dB and was capable of reaching about 110 dB.
A subsequent dispute over the princely state of Jammu and Kashmir eventually sparked the Indo-Pakistani War of 1947–1948.
A theory of the origin of the Baloch people, the largest ethnic group in the region, is that they are of Median descent.
A tornado is also reported to have hit Chak Misran village close to Sargodha in Pakistan on 28 March, 2001 (Khan, 2010; Faisal and Jameel, 2010).
A web portal was launched where citizens can get registered and report their activities to earn points.
Abbottabad became the nerve center of the movement.
Abdul Qadeer Khan spearheaded Pakistan's HEU-based gas-centrifuge uranium enrichment program for its atomic bomb project.
About 1,000 kilograms (1.1 short tons) of waste is produced and dumped in glacial crevasses daily by Indian forces.
About 14 June, seven Germans and nine Sherpas, almost the entire team, were at Camp IV below Rakhiot Peak when it was overrun by an avalanche.
About 1500, Janjua Rajputs' cavalry fought in the battle of Panipat from this area in support of Babur under the command of Malik Hast Khan Janjua (Asad).
About 26 species of vascular plant exist in the area, with Asteraceae the most commonly found species.
About 26% of Pakistan's total land area is under cultivation and is watered by one of the largest irrigation systems in the world.
About 39% of the revenue is generated from the transportation of petroleum, 19% from imported wheat, fertiliser and rock phosphate.
About 40% of the total population of Rajasthan lives in the Thar Desert.
About 49% of India's land is agricultural; that number rises to 55% if associated wetlands, dryland farming areas, etc., are included.
About 85% of the population lived in rural areas.
About only 4.1% of land in Pakistan is covered with forests.
About two-thirds of the desert area lies in India, with the remaining in Pakistan.
Above mountains ridges to the west is the valley of the Panjkora River, to the north the Gilgit Valley, and Indus River gorges to the east.
Above the Black Pyramid, the route continues along dangerously exposed and difficult-to-navigate slopes leading to the easily visible "Shoulder" and then on to the summit.
Abū Rayḥān Muḥammad ibn Aḥmad Al-Bīrūnī states in his book Alberuni's India that the coast of India begins with Tiz, the capital of Makran.
Access to the lakes is limited to a short period between August and September, as the lakes are snowbound for most of the year.
Acclimatisation is essential when climbing without oxygen to avoid some degree of altitude sickness.
According to 2010 news reports, the people of Gilgit-Baltistan want to merge into Pakistan as a separate fifth province.
According to Ahmad Hasan Dani, the term is derived from Prshtawar in Sanskrit, Prshta meaning "back" of the Indus River and War meaning "area".
According to Christopher Snedden, one of the reasons for this was that the people of Azad Kashmir had always wanted to be part of Pakistan.
According to Climate minister Sherry Rehman this "has exceeded every boundary, every norm we've seen in the past".
According to Dhungana, 91.94% of the respondents experienced drought as major climatic hazards then floods at 83.87%, landslides at 70.97%, and forest fires at 67.74%.
According to Diodorus, Antipater recognized Porus's authority over the territories along the Indus River.
According to Ershad Mahmud, these Pakistani political parties have played a 'laudable role' in organising a movement for democratic rights among the residents of Gilgit-Baltistan.
According to Greek sources, Alexander III of Macedon and his army crossed the Jhelum River in 326 BCE and defeated the Indian King Porus at the Battle of the Hydaspes.
According to Guinness World Records, Nanga Parbat is the fastest growing mountain in the world, growing taller at a rate of 7 mm (0.27 in) per year.
According to Hindu puranas, the goddess Parvati was requested by the sage Kashyapa to come to Kashmir to purify the land from the evil practices and impurities of the pishachas living there.
According to IPCC estimates, the mean rate of global average sea level rise was 1.7 mm/year between 1901 and 2010, and 3.2 mm/year between 1993 and 2010.
According to Indian journalist Paul Sahni, this is seen as an effort by Pakistan to legitimise its rule over Gilgit-Baltistan.
According to Kohn (2014), the exhumation of metamorphic rocks can be explained by the Main Himalayan Thrust.
According to Muhammad Hanif Bhatti, a well-known traveler from Karachi, when he first saw the Chandra Gupta mudflat in Hangul National Park in 2010 he praised the uniqueness of this natural process.
According to NAPA (National Adaptation Program of Action) of Nepal, many threats including floods, droughts, and landslides are an imminent threat to the glacial lake area.
According to Reuters and the BBC, there are as many as 500,000-600,000 Hazaras living in Quetta and its surrounding areas.
According to Richard M. Eaton, Khizr Khan was the son of a Punjabi chieftain.
According to TIME magazine, India gained over 1,000 square miles (3,000 km2) in territory because of its 1980s military operations in Siachen.
According to Tarikh-i-Hind (also known as the Chach Nama) by 6th century AD there existed a port called Debal in what is now the western part of the Indus delta.
According to Walter Schumann, the West Hindu Kush mountains have been the source of the finest Lapis lazuli for thousands of years.
According to William Langewiesche, writing for The Atlantic, "it may seem obvious that the loss of Bangladesh was a blessing"—but it has never been seen that way in Pakistan.
According to a 2023 UN report, the Pakistani military was the fifth largest troop contributor to UN peacekeeping missions.
According to a 2025 report, some newspapers have faced financial pressure—such as withdrawal of government advertisements—for publishing content critical of government policies.
According to a World Bank report, "Karachi's urban air pollution is among the most severe in the world and it engenders significant damages to human health and the economy".
According to a report on Dawn, the rate of multidimensional poverty in Balochistan had risen to 71% by 2016.
According to an NGO head, 3 million acres of land containing many villages have been submerged in the coastal areas of the districts Thatta, Badin and Sajawal over the past 40 years.
According to ancient history traced to the Vedas, the Ravi River was known as Irāvatī (Sanskrit: इरावती).
According to data maintained by Christian community organisations, there are around 4,500 Christian residents in the region.
According to him, Hindu Kush means Hindu-slayer as slaves from the Indian subcontinent died in the harsh climatic conditions of the mountains while being taken to Turkestan by traders.
According to him, of the 1400 monasteries that had supposedly been there, most were in ruins or had been abandoned.
According to independent reports, 20 staff members, 18 game watchers and 2 deputy rangers are responsible for the management of the park.
According to local traditions, Baba Ratan Hindi was a trader from Punjab who was one of the non-Arab companions of Prophet Muhammad.
According to official records, only 220 Indian soldiers have been killed by enemy bullets since 1984 in Siachen area.
According to researchers, Pakistan is projected to become the most water-stressed country in the region by the year 2040.
According to scholar Chitralekha Zutshi, the organisation's declared goal was to achieve responsible government under the aegis of the maharaja without association with either India or Pakistan.
According to scholar Yaqub Khan Bangash, it lacked sway over the population.
According to some accounts, the Macedonian fleet (of Alexander the Great) anchored itself for some time in the Indus river delta.
According to the 2017 Census, nearly all of the population of Balochistan were Muslims.
According to the 2020–2021 census, the literacy rate in Azad Kashmir was 91.34%.
According to the 2023 Census of Pakistan, the population of the city was a total of 1,565,546.
According to the 2023 census, the most widely spoken language is Pashto, native to 81% of the population and spoken throughout the province.
According to the Alif Ailaan Pakistan Education Rankings for 2017, Swat with a score of 53.1, was ranked 86 out of 155 districts in terms of education.
According to the British historian John Eliot, parts of the city of Karachi and the island of Manora at port of Karachi constituted the city of Debal.
According to the Climate Action Tracker, Nepal is "almost sufficient" on its track to reach the goals set by the Paris Agreement.
According to the Economic Survey of Pakistan, the drought was one of the most significant factors responsible for the less than anticipated growth performance.
According to the Gazetteer of Kurram, the richness of the land gradually weaned the Turks from their nomadic life.
According to the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Local Government Act, 2013, a new local governments system was introduced, in which Swat was included.
According to the Minister for Railways Ghulam Ahmad Bilour, after the trial of the container train service, a passenger train will be launched.
According to the Mir of Hunza, the population of sheep was around 400 but had dropped to below 180 by the time of the completion of the Karakoram Highway.
According to the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Pakistan has the sixth-largest diaspora globally.
According to the UN in 2011, Pakistan was the most heavily deforested country in Asia.
According to the WEF's Global Competitiveness Report, Pakistan's port infrastructure quality ratings rose from 3.7 to 4.1 between 2007 and 2016.
According to the World Bank, 70% of Pakistan's population live in rural areas and are already stricken by high poverty levels.
According to the World Wildlife Fund it is one of the most threatened cetaceans with only about 1,816 still existing.
According to the folklore, Saiful Maluk (whose name means 'Sword of the Kings') was a prince of Egypt.
According to the government, 40 percent of the country's water needs went unmet.
According to the survey done under the Red Plus programme in 2017, the forest cover of Pakistan is 5.7%.
According to the tale, the dog chased after thieves who had stolen from the merchant, leading the merchant to free him and return to his master.
According to these inscriptions, ships carrying up to 20 tons of goods (20,000 kilograms each) traversed this trade route regularly.
According to this theory, during the summer months in the Northern Hemisphere, the ITCZ shifts north, pulling the southwest monsoon winds onto the land from the sea.
According to this theory, the monsoon is a result of the shift of the Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) under the influence of the vertical sun.
According to this theory, the onset of the southwest monsoon is driven by the shift of the subtropical westerly jet north from over the plains of India toward the Tibetan Plateau.
Accordingly, in 1856 British forces numbering 4,896 troops traversed their country, and the tribe entered into engagements for future good conduct.
Accounts of piracy have been contested, and piracy may have been simply used as a casus belli for the East India Company to seize control of the Persian Gulf region.
Accounts of the Indus Valley from the times of Alexander's campaign indicate a healthy forest cover in the region.
Accumulated trash, limited community incentives, and ineffective waste disposal have worsened the situation.
Achaemenid emperor Darius the Great, in 518 BCE crossed the Indus and annexe the regions up to the Jhelum River.
Additionally, Urdu is spoken by the formally educated and, like English, is used as a medium of instruction in schools.
Additionally, about 20% of the region, known as Aksai Chin and the Shaksgam Valley, is under Chinese control.
Additionally, around 2 million Bangladeshis and half a million undocumented individuals, purportedly from Myanmar, reside in Pakistan.
Additionally, coordination challenges among different organizations sometimes led to resource duplication and gaps in critical areas.
Additionally, farmers rendered jobless by failed monsoon rains tend to migrate to cities.
Additionally, it established institutions like the Shariat Court and the Council of Islamic Ideology to interpret and apply Islam.
Additionally, one of the causes of rain must happen.
Additionally, plans are underway to resurrect Karachi's tramway service, which ceased operations in 1975, in collaboration with Austrian experts.
Additionally, private schools offer a parallel secondary education system based on the curriculum set by the Cambridge International Examinations, with 439 international schools reported in Pakistan.
Additionally, several thousand Punjabis gather in Lahore every year on International Mother Language Day.
Additionally, the Chinese government has announced plans to lay railway track from Tashkent, Uzbekistan towards Kyrgyzstan with onwards connections to China and Pakistan's coast.
Additionally, the arrival date and the departure date of both the southwest and northeast monsoon should be close to the mean dates.
Admiral Shariff served as the deputy of General Niazi when doing joint military operations.
Admiral Shariff's effective plans made it nearly impossible for the Indian Navy to land its naval forces on the shores of East Pakistan.
Afghanistan's governments have periodically refused to recognize Pakistan's inheritance of British treaties regarding the region.
Afghanistan's loya jirga of 1949 declared the Durand Line invalid.
Afridi tribes resisted Aurangzeb rule during the Afridi Revolt of the 1670s.
After Alexander's death in 323 BCE, Perdiccas became the regent of his empire, and after Perdiccas's murder in 321 BCE, Antipater became the new regent.
After Ashoka's death the Mauryan empire fell to pieces, just as in the west the Seleucid power was waning.
After Independence, Pakistan vigorously pursued bilateral relations with other Muslim countries.
After Pakistan's independence, Jammu and Kashmir initially remained an independent state.
After Ranjit Singh's death in 1839, the empire was severely weakened by internal divisions and political mismanagement.
After Ranjit Singh's departure from the region, Khattak's rule was undermined and power seized by Yar Muhammad Khan.
After a decade of military rule, East Pakistan was a hotbed of Bengali nationalism.
After a defeat in Eastern Afghanistan suffered on the Shahi ally Lawik, Bhimadeva mounted a combined attack around 963 CE.
After a large amount of snowfall in 1988 in Bhakra, there was flooding downstream, which caused a shift in the course of the Sutlej.
After a secret meeting held in Larkana, Mujib agreed to give Bhutto the office of the presidency with Mujib as prime minister.
After adopting a presidential system in 1962, Pakistan witnessed significant growth until the second war with India in 1965, resulting in an economic downturn and widespread public discontent in 1967.
After an increase in successful attempts, as of August 2023[update], an estimated 800 people have summited K2, with 96 deaths during attempted climbs.
After completion of Phase 1 in 2007, the first commercial cargo vessel to dock at the port was the "Pos Glory", with 70,000 Metric Tonnes of Wheat on 15 March 2008.
After crossing one of the streams which later form the Kunhar river downstream, it is a hike of around 6 tp 7 hours to the lake.
After flowing for 100 kilometres (62 mi), it joins Ravi at Nainkot in Pakistan.
After four years of unresolved conflict between rival Mujahideen groups, Pakistan helped establish the Taliban as a stabilizing force.
After his death, his son Muhammad Tughlaq became the emperor.
After his father's death in 1325 CE, Muhammad bin Tughlaq assumed power and his rule saw the empire expand to most of the Indian subcontinent, its peak in terms of geographical reach.
After his invasion, Khizr Khan established the fourth dynasty of the Delhi Sultanate.
After independence and dissolution of Empire, Independent and free Pakistan contested the southern boundary of Sindh, and a succession of border incidents resulted.
After midwinter, overall population begins to decline and reaches its minimum between May–June.
After passing through Lahore the river takes a turn at Kamalia and then debouches into the Chenab River, south of the town of Ahmadpur Sial.
After taking control of Gilgit, the Gilgit Scouts along with Azad irregulars moved towards Baltistan and Ladakh and captured Skardu by May 1948.
After that present Prime Minister Narendra Modi also visited this place.
After the 1970 general elections, the Parliament crafted the 1973 Constitution.
After the 2008 general election, the Awami National Party formed a coalition provincial government with the Pakistan Peoples Party.
After the 2013 earthquake in Pakistan, the mud island was formed.
After the 2018 election, PTI increased their seat share and formed a majority government.
After the Afghan-Soviet War, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has become one of the areas of top focus for the War against Terror.
After the Alexandrian invasion of Swat, and adjacent regions of Buner, control of the wider Gandhara region was handedclaimed by Seleucus I Nicator.
After the Battle of Peshawar, he died because of regretting as his subjects brought disaster and disgrace to the Shahi dynasty.
After the Indus Water Treaty in 1960 World Bank decided that River Sutlej, Ravi and Beas water will be used by India and River Indus, Jhelum and Chenab water will be used by Pakistan.
After the Indus debouches from its narrow Himalayan valley, it forms, along with its tributaries, the Punjab region of South Asia.
After the Lhasa terrane had adjoined Eurasia, an active continental margin opened along its southern flank, below which the Neo-Tethys oceanic plate had begun to subduct.
After the Mughal Empire's decline in the 18th century, Punjab experienced a period of anarchy.
After the Second Anglo-Afghan War ended in 1880, the Khyber region came under British control, and the policy of paying local tribes to maintain the route's security was implemented.
After the Soviets withdrew, infighting erupted among Mujahideen factions over control of Afghanistan.
After the Umayyads conquered the key cities of Uch and Multan, they ruled the far areas of Punjab and included Kashmir.
After the accession of Khizr Khan, the Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Sindh were reunited under the Delhi Sultanate, where he spent his time subduing rebellions.
After the assassination of Benazir Bhutto in 2007, the PPP secured the most votes in the elections of 2008, appointing party member Yusuf Raza Gilani as Prime Minister.
After the battle of Peshawar, Mahmud of Ghazni had secured controlled over southern regions of Pakhtunkhwa.
After the creation of Pakistan, Pakistan continued with this name but a Pashtun political party, Awami National Party based in the province demanded that the province name be changed to "Pakhtunkhwa".
After the death of Mubarak Shah, his nephew, Muhammad Shah ascended the throne and styled himself as Sultan Muhammad Shah.
After the death of the Islamic prophet Muhammad, the Arab expansion towards the east reached the Sindh region beyond Persia.
After the defeat of the Sikhs in the First Anglo-Sikh War, the region became a part of the Jammu and Kashmir princely state, which since 1846 had remained under the rule of the Dogras.
After the empire's fall in 712, though the empire had ended, its dynasty's members administered parts of Sindh under the Umayyad Caliphate's Caliphal province of Sind.
After the foundation of Pakistan, Balochistan acquired the status of a province and Quetta became a provincial capital.
After the girl's family filed a case, the court ruled in the family's favour, angering the local Muslims who had later gone on to lead attacks against the Bannu Brigade.
After the introduction of Islam to Gilgit, married a daughter of Trakhan of Gilgit, who bore him twin sons, named Moghlot and Girkis.
After the month of September the water level of the river remains up to 8 inches.
After the mothers lay and leave them buried under the sands the SWD and WWF officials take the eggs and protect them until they are hatched to keep them from predators.
After the victory of the Mauryan Empire against the Greeks in the Seleucid–Mauryan war, Baluchistan came under the rule of Chandragupta Maurya of ancient India.
After this the Indus flows alone through the Lower Indus Plain.
After voting on both sides, partition was decided and the existing Punjab Legislative Assembly was also divided into West Punjab Legislative Assembly and the East Punjab Legislative Assembly.
Agricultural GHG are mostly methane and nitrous oxide.
Agricultural farming away from the irrigated regions in Lower Cholistan is difficult due to the lack of steady water supply.
Agricultural nonpoint sources enter surface water through direct surface runoff or through seepage to ground water that discharges to a surface water outlet.
Agricultural production is mainly from kharif crops, which are grown in the summer season and seeded in June and July.
Agricultural products are wheat, corn (maize), barley, and fruits.
Agriculture and livestock form the primary sources of livelihood with gram flour being the main cash crop.
Agriculture and livestock rearing form the main sources of livelihood for the population, who live in small scattered settlements throughout the desert.
Agriculture has been the chief economic feature of the Punjab and formed the foundation of Punjabi culture.
Agriculture has been the major economic feature of the Punjab and has therefore formed the foundation of Punjabi culture, with one's social status being determined by landownership.
Agriculture is a major part of Azad Kashmir's economy.
Agriculture is sustained largely due to irrigation works.
Ahmad Hasan Dani has recorded several findings in the North Waziristan area.
Ahmad Shah Durrani was the last major Islamic conqueror to cross the pass, though his successors' campaigns had limited lasting impact.
Ahmad Shah Durrani, founder of the Afghan Empire, also won the allegiance of that area's rulers, and many Baloch fought under him during the Third Battle of Panipat.
Ahmad Shah invaded the remnants of the Mughal Empire a third time, and then a fourth, consolidating control over the Kashmir and Punjab regions.
Ahmad Shah was then forced to accompany Zorawar Singh on his raid into Western Tibet.
Ahmadis face persecution, banned from calling themselves Muslims since 1974.
Air Commodore Inamul Haque Khan, Dacca airbase's AOC, failed to offer any serious resistance to the actions of the Indian Air Force.
Air pollution is a growing environmental problem in most major cities of Pakistan.
Airlift is a Pakistan-based company while SWVL is an Egyptian company.
Airports and seaports have been built with the addition of foreign and domestic funding.
Ajrak is another specialty of Cholistan.
Al Biruni was supported by Sultan Mahmud.
Al-Baladhuri states they were victorious at Debal but doesn't mention the results of other two raids.
Al-Biruni, a Persian polymath, also called it "the River of Ghorwand".
Al-Hakim ibn Jabalah al-Abdi, who attacked Makran in the year 649, was an early partisan of Ali ibn Abu Talib.
Alam replied [to the locals], "you are a crowd of fools led astray by a madman.
Alexander conquered parts of Sindh after Punjab for few years and appointed his general Peithon as governor.
Alexander entered the Indian subcontinent through the Hindu Kush as his army moved past the Afghan Valleys in the spring of 329 BCE.
Alexander later founded two cities—Nicaea at the site of victory and Bucephalous at the battle-ground, in memory of his horse, who died soon after the battle.
Alexander mentions the river name as Arabius (Ancient Greek: Ἀράβιος), and local people as Oreitans.
Alexander the Great crossed Hub River through Lasbela on his way back to Babylon after conquering Northwestern India.
Alexander the Great travelled through this region.
Alexander then dispatched part of his force through the valley of the Kabul River, while he himself advanced into Bajaur and Swat with his light troops.
Alexander was wounded by an arrow that had penetrated his lung, leaving him severely injured.
Alexander's admiral Nearchus set out from the Indus Delta to explore the Persian Gulf, until reaching the Tigris.
All Ministers report to the Chief Minister, who is the Chief Executive.
All Secretaries report to the Chief Secretary of Punjab, who is usually a BPS-22 Civil Servant.
All are tributaries of the Indus River, the Sutlej being the largest.
All flights are subject to weather clearance; in winter, flights are often delayed by several days.
All law-making was concentrated in the KANA Ministry of Pakistan.
All major climbing routes are located on the Pakistani side.
All of Pakistan's provinces and territories are subdivided into divisions, which are further subdivided into districts, and then tehsils, which are again further subdivided into union councils.
All of the roads to the south opened toward the Pakistan-administered state of Azad Kashmir and to the southeast toward the present-day Indian-administered Jammu and Kashmir.
All of them were rulers of these hills and chieftains of this ruling Rajput clan.
All of these are "run-of-the-river" projects as per the Indus Waters Treaty of 1960.
All of these factors have positive ripple effects throughout the economy of India.
All of these groups speak Sindhi and follow Islam.
All of this pollution lowers the river water quality, causes eutrophication, reducing the amount of habitat.
All other peaks above 8,000m are in the Baltoro Muztagh subrange of Karakoram.
All political and judicial powers remained in the hands of the Ministry of Kashmir Affairs and Northern Areas (KANA).
All positions above the Assistant Superintendent level are filled from the PSP, ensuring national standards across provincial forces.
All sector commanders were Bengali officers who had defected from the Pakistan Army.
All the figures require to be re-checked.
Allan further states that to the Arab geographers Hindu Kush was the frontier boundary of Hindustan.
Allegedly, the firing was ordered by the coalition government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, led by the Awami National Party.
Almost 80% of the NATO and US supplies that were brought in by road were transported through the Khyber Pass.
Almost all of them are located in the northern regions of Pakistan in Gilgit-Baltistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Almost every bigger valley has a polo ground, polo matches in such grounds attract locals as well as foreigners visitors during summer season.
Almost opposite the Abruzzi Spur is the North Ridge, which ascends the Chinese side of the peak.
Along such coastlines, the adjoining oceanic plate subducts and erupts as volcanoes.
Along the Eastern edge of the Sulaimans is the Sulaiman Fold, an area within the Indian Plate consisting of sediment, alongside which runs the Ornach Nal-Ghazaband-Chaman Fault.
Along the coastal strip, the climate is modified by sea breeze.
Along the northern border, Himalayan ranges divided it from Kashmir and Tibet.
Already, the massive droughts of 1998-2002 has stretched the coping abilities of the existing systems to the limit and it has barely been able to check the situation from becoming a catastrophe.
Also J & K state is going ahead with the construction of Ravi canal originating from Basantpur to irrigate 54,000 hectares (133,000 acres) of land in Jammu region.
Also in 1985, a Polish women's team climbed the peak via the 1962 German Diamir Face route.
Also included as part of the CPEC infrastructure development package for port infrastructure is a $130 million breakwater around the port.
Also known as the thermal theory or the differential heating of sea and land theory, the traditional theory portrays the monsoon as a large-scale sea breeze.
Also the conference only addressed the issue of glacier melt, while in recent times, climate migration due to lack of rainfall also became a major concern.
Also, Kirpal Singh revered the Sikh Gurus as saints.
Also, many of the elevations listed are approximate, due to imprecise and inconsistent surveys.
Also, some mountainous areas, especially in Himalayan regions, get cut off when roads are damaged by landslides and floods during heavy rains.
Also, this area is known as the first ever Muslim Rajputs Kingdom and Raja Mal Dev Khan Janjua was the founder of this kingdom.
Altaf Memom estimates that 90,000 have been displaced and about 120 villages have been depopulated.
Alternatively, Punjab is also adding to the economy with the increase in employment of Punjab youth in the private sector.
Alternatively, a relative prominence (prominence or height) is used (usually 7–8%) to reflect that in higher mountain ranges everything is on a larger scale.
Alternatively, some authors consider that Hindush may have been located in the Punjab area.
Although Bollywood films were banned from public cinemas from 1965 to 2008, they remained influential in Pakistani popular culture.
Although Pakistan was granted major non-NATO ally status by the U.S. in 2004, it faced accusations of supporting the Taliban insurgents in Afghanistan.
Although Sindh has a semi arid climate, through its coastal and riverine forests, its huge fresh water lakes and mountains and deserts, Sindh supports a large amount of varied wildlife.
Although during the Stone and Bronze Age and Alexander the Great's empire an indigenous population existed, the Baloch people themselves did not enter the region until the 14th century CE.
Although in the 1960s and 1970s degradation of the channel of the Zhob decreased the irrigable acreage.
Although it constitutes approximately 44% of Pakistan's land area, only 5% of it is arable, and it is noted for an extremely dry desert climate.
Although most of the metasediments forming the HHCS are of late Proterozoic to early Cambrian age, much younger metasediments can also be found in several areas, e.g.
Although not the largest earthquake to hit this region in terms of magnitude it is considered the deadliest, surpassing the 1935 Quetta earthquake.
Although official estimates rarely place the temperature above 46 °C, newspaper sources claim that it reaches 51 °C and regularly carry reports about people who have succumbed to the heat.
Although one building has been identified as a mosque, it is very difficult to distinguish other religious, military or civil structures.
Although reductions in snow and ice cover were noted, research indicates that the glacier is not retreating but experiencing surges, shifting and flowing into neighbouring glaciers.
Although some NGOs and government departments have taken initiatives to stop environmental degradation, Pakistan's environmental issues still remain.
Although some of the names were ethnically neutral, most proposals emphasised the province's Pashtun ethnic identity.
Although the ENSO effect was statistically effective in explaining several past droughts in India, in recent decades, its relationship with the Indian monsoon seemed to weaken.
Although the southwest and northeast monsoon winds are seasonally reversible, they do cause precipitation on their own.
Although the summer temperatures do not get as high as those in Punjab, the high humidity causes the residents a great deal of discomfort.
Although the summit of Everest is at a higher altitude, K2 is a more difficult and dangerous climb.
Although, East Pakistan had a larger population, West Pakistan dominated the divided country politically and received more money from the common budget.
Although, Pakistan Hindu Council claimed that there are 6,842,526 Hindus living in Sindh Province covering around 14.29% of the region's population.
Among East Pakistan's newspapers, The Daily Ittefaq was the leading Bengali language title; while Holiday was a leading English title.
Among South Asian countries, Pakistan's GDP growth rate of 2.5% in 2024 was the second lowest after Afghanistan.
Among the highest mountains are K2 (Mount Godwin-Austen) and Nanga Parbat, the latter being one of the most feared mountains in the world.
Among the major powers that ruled the region were the Mauryas (322–185 BCE), during which Ashoka the Great extended the empire.
Among the three tiers of local government, tehsil government is the second tier.
Among the wild animals, the Sindh ibex (sareh), blackbuck, wild sheep (Urial or gadh) and wild bear are found in the western rocky range.
Among these Avicennia marina constitutes 99% of the mangrove population.
Among these, the Ravi and Sutlej are diverted in upstream India, for which consumptive use was awarded to India under the Indus Waters Treaty signed in 1960 by India and Pakistan.
An 1835 attempt by Dost Muhammad Khan to re-occupy Peshawar failed when his army declined to engage in combat with the Dal Khalsa.
An 80% reduction in the amount of river sediment as compared to the early 20th century is reported and attributed to the extensive damming of the Indus River.
An additional approximately 25,000 ill-equipped civilian volunteers and police forces also sided with the Pakistan Armed Forces.
An airline founded in British Bengal, Orient Airways, launched the vital air link between East and West Pakistan with DC-3 aircraft on the Dacca-Calcutta-Delhi-Karachi route.
An almost complete stratigraphic record ranging from the Upper Proterozoic to the Eocene is preserved within the sediments of the TH.
An alternative route from Sibi to Quetta was found in the Harnai valley to the N.E.
An ancient Indian law book called the Manusmriti, developed by Brahmin Hindu priests, shaped Punjabi religious life from 200 BCE onward.
An author who had significant and sustained contact with Burusho people, John Clark, reported that they were overall unhealthy.
An average of four to five western disturbances form during the winter season.
An early shift results in an early monsoon.
An earthquake occurred at 08:50:39 Pakistan Standard Time on 8 October 2005 in Azad Jammu and Kashmir, a territory under Pakistan.
An economic crisis has significantly impaired the economic rights of individuals, depriving them of necessary resources and opportunities.
An important uprising against the British in the region was the Indian Rebellion of 1857, known at the time as the Sepoy Mutiny.
An index to calculate it was also formulated.
An initiative named Clean Green Pakistan was launched in 2019 by the Government of Pakistan.
An inscription found at Kura in the Salt Range records the building of a Buddhist monastery by a person named Rotta Siddhavriddhi during the reign of the Huna ruler Toramana.
An oil pipeline from Gwadar to China's population centers (not yet built), will cost up to $8/barrel, while the cost of shipping oil from the Persian Gulf to China is $2–3/barrel.
An outcome of the arrangement proved to be mutually beneficial.
Anchan's reign brought prosperity and entertained art, sport, and variety in architecture.
Ancient mines producing lapis lazuli are found in Kowkcheh Valley, while gem-grade emeralds are found north of Kabul in the valley of the Panjsher River and some of its tributaries.
Ancillary infrastructure projects for the port will also be built as part of CPEC.
André Weil named K3 surfaces in mathematics partly after the beauty of the mountain K2.
Annual rainfall on the island is very low, averaging less than 28 mm (1.1 in), with most precipitation occurring during the monsoon months of June and July.
Annual rainfall ranges from around 500 millimetres (20 in) in the most sheltered areas to as much as 1,750 millimetres (69 in) in parts of Abbottabad and Mansehra Districts.
Another advantage to China is that it will be able to bypass the Strait of Malacca.
Another agreement for China's assistance was signed in October 2008, seen as a response to the US–India agreement.
Another example of the diversity amongst the Himalayan peoples is that handwoven textiles display colors and patterns unique to their ethnic backgrounds.
Another factor was that the whole of Pakistan itself was deficient in democratic norms and principles, therefore the federal government did not prioritise democratic development in the region.
Another general, Yahya Khan, usurped the presidency and enacted martial law.
Another major consequence of partition was the sudden shift towards religious homogeneity occurred in all districts across Punjab owing to the new international border that cut through the province.
Another major language of Azad Kashmir is Gujari.
Another major tributary that joins the Ravi River, just below Bharmour, the old capital of Chamba, is the Seul River from the northern direction.
Another new barrage called "Sindh Barrage" is planned as a terminal barrage on the Indus River.
Another notable Japanese ascent was that of the difficult North Ridge on the Chinese side of the peak in 1982.
Another prince, Dr. Fahad was fined with Rs.
Another route is from Astore valley via Chilim.
Another six mountaineers died in the 1995 K2 disaster, while eleven climbers died in the 2008 K2 disaster.
Another subduction zone opened to the west, in the ocean basin above the Kohistan-Ladakh island arc.
Another theory derives the word Swat from the Sanskrit word shveta (lit.
Another theory posits the name to may have been derived from ancient Avestan, meaning 'water mountain', with Kush probably being a corruption of the Persian word kuh ('mountain').
Another very common form of transport, seen mainly at hotels and airports, are yellow taxis.
Any fluctuations in the time distribution, spatial distribution, or quantity of the monsoon rains may lead to floods or droughts, causing the agricultural sector to suffer.
Any further utilization of the river basin water is not economically feasible.
Apart from Twelver Shias there are Isma'ilis in the Chitral district.
Apart from accommodation, the most difficult task for the pilgrims who come here is to climb the Chandra Gup Mt.
Apart from oil, gas and some mineral used in nuclear energy purposes which comes directly under federal control mining of other minerals is provincial issue.
Approximately 110 miles from its source, it merges with the Zhob River, its major tributary, near Khajuri Kach.
Approximately 138,000 people were injured, and over 3.5 million were rendered homeless.
Approximately 16.5% of the population was urban in 2017.
Approximately 20 mm per year of the India–Asia convergence is absorbed by thrusting along the Himalaya southern front.
Approximately 30 different names exist in the literature to describe this unit; the most frequently found equivalents are "Greater Himalayan Sequence", "Tibetan Slab" and "High Himalayan Crystalline".
Approximately 38% of economy of Swat depended on tourism and 31% on agriculture.
Approximately 4.8% or 36,845.6 square kilometres (3,684,560 ha) of Pakistan was forested in 2021.
Approximately 7 million Pakistanis reside abroad, mainly in the Middle East, Europe, and North America.
Approximately 80% of its Middle Eastern and African energy imports also pass through the Straits of Malacca.
Approximately, 20 kilometers (12 miles) from the village of Askole in Braldo, Shigar District, this glacial junction is found.
Areas in the southern part of the range include an Imbricate fan of slices of rocks in close parallel, bounded by faults on either side of each slice.
Aridity is a common feature and perennial grasses make up much of the vegetation.
Around 1 million of the population selected "Other" category, largely referring to Khowar in the mountainous northwest Chitral.
Around 1.5 million Afghan refugees also remain in the province, the majority of whom are Pashtuns.
Around 1001 CE, the last Hindu Shahi king, Jayapala was decisively defeated at the Battle of Peshawar (1001) by Mahmud of Ghazni, thereby ending 2 centuries of Hindu rule over Gandhara.
Around 20% of population is based in the cities of Gilgit and Skardu.
Around 50,000 Muslim women were abducted and raped by Hindu and Sikh men, while 33,000 Hindu and Sikh women experienced the same fate at the hands of Muslims.
Around 574 health facilities were reported to have been partially damaged or destroyed.
Around 6.5 million Muslims moved from India to West Pakistan and 4.7 million Hindus and Sikhs moved from West Pakistan to India.
Around two-thirds of water supplied for irrigation and in homes come from the Indus and its associated rivers.
Arrian, in the Anabasis of Alexander, quotes the eyewitness Ptolemy Lagides as writing that the river was 2 miles (3.2 km) wide where Alexander crossed it.
Arthrocnemum macrostachyum is also found growing in the delta.
As Alexander never crossed the Beas River, so his territory probably lay in the Punjab region.
As FATA became part of KPK, all the literacy rates are recalculated by combining literacy rates of both regions.
As India moved north, it is possible the thickness of the Indian plate degenerated further as it passed over the hotspots and magmatic extrusions associated with the Deccan and Rajmahal Traps.
As Mughal power weakened, Afghan rulers of Durrani dynasty took control of the region.
As Mughal power weakened, Afghan rulers took control of the region.
As PML (N) secured a supermajority in elections in 1997, Nawaz Sharif authorised nuclear testings, as a retaliation to the second nuclear tests conducted by India in May 1998.
As a consequence, India underwent a counter-clockwise rotation to close the remaining part of the Neotethys in scissor-like fashion from west to east.
As a non-signatory of the Treaty on Nuclear Non-Proliferation, Pakistan holds influence in the IAEA.
As a patron of Mahayana Buddhism, new Buddhists stupas were built and old ones were enlarged.
As a response to drought at the high altitudes, plantations are planting more protective trees, drought resistant plants, and have begun adopting irrigation practices drawing from nearby streams.
As a result of its accessibility, attempts to reach the summit of Nanga Parbat began very soon after it was discovered by Europeans.
As a result of resource degradation, a large exodus of people has taken place from the Indus delta.
As a result of the CPEC, Chinese imports and exports to the Middle East, Africa, and Europe would require much shorter shipment times and distances.
As a result, Environment Protection Ordinance was enacted in 1983, which was mainly regulated by the Environment and Urban Affairs Division.
As a result, damming and irrigation have made fish farming an important economic activity.
As a result, earthquakes in Pakistan occur often and are destructive.
As a result, the 2010 Pakistan floods were considered "good news" for the ecosystem and population of the river delta as they brought much needed fresh water.
As a result, the 2010 Pakistan floods were considered "good news" for the ecosystem and population of the river delta as they brought much-needed fresh water.
As a result, the Himalayan range is one of the most seismically active regions in the world.
As a result, the Indian government is actively working with farmers and the nation's meteorological department to produce more drought resistant crops.
As a result, the air above it rises higher and higher, creating a thermal low.
As a result, the crust of this formerly coastal region shortened under compression and thickened to become what is today the Tibetan Plateau.
As a result, the government banned fishing from Guddu Barrage to Sukkur.
As a result, the main ridge of the Himalayas is not clearly defined, and mountain passes are not as significant for traversing the range as with other mountain ranges.
As a result, the region has historically seen substantial flooding in the summer months.
As a result, the southern slopes of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa are the wettest part of Pakistan.
As a signatory of the UN Convention on Biological Diversity, Pakistan is committed to expanding its protected areas to encompass 17% of its total territory by the year 2030.
As a tributary of the Gomal River, which it joins near Khajuri Kach, the Zhob forms a part of the Indus River Basin.
As compared to the Upper Indus sand, the sand dunes of the Thal are poorer in quartz and sedimentary to low-rank metasedimentary rock fragments.
As in central Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, the seasonality of precipitation shows a very sharp gradient from west to east, but the whole region very rarely receives significant monsoon rainfall.
As in the previous census in 1998, the largest city of Gilgit-Baltistan was Gilgit, with 56,701 inhabitants.
As late as 1960, approximately 70% of Pakistan's export earnings originated in East Pakistan, although this percentage declined as international demand for jute dwindled.
As many as two-thirds of them are used by the people for their medicinal effects to treat or cure various diseases.
As of 2003, fishing was an important source of revenue.
As of 2007, the mangroves of the Indus delta are the largest desert climate mangrove forests in the world.
As of 2011[update], Indus water flows in to the Rann of Kutch during its floods breaching flood banks.
As of 2012[update], 12% of Pakistani Muslims self-identify as non-denominational Muslims.
As of 2013, Pakistan boasts approximately 151 airports and airfields, encompassing both military and civilian installations.
As of 2014–15, the services sector contributes 58.8% to GDP, serving as the main driver of economic growth in Pakistan, with a consumption-oriented society.
As of 2015, there are only 327,778 registered Afghan refugees according to the UNHCR.
As of 2018, Pakistan's literacy rate stands at 62.3%, with significant regional and gender disparities.
As of 2021, GDP of Azad Jammu and Kashmir was estimated to be 10 billion pounds, giving per capita an income of £5604.
As of 2021, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) has the highest literacy growth rate in the whole country (Pakistan).
As of 2021, Pakistan has not declared a net-zero year goal, however, it has committed to cut 50% of projected emissions by 2030.
As of 2022, Pakistan ranks seventh globally in cotton production, with substantial spinning capacity, making it a major exporter of textile products in Asia.
As of 2023[update], Pakistan has 37 national parks (Urdu: پاکستان کے نیشنل پارک) that are recognised by World Database on Protected Areas.
As of 2025[update], Pakistan's nominal GDP stood at US$410.5 billion, with GDP by PPP at US$1.67 trillion.
As of 27 October 2005 There had been more than 978 aftershocks with a magnitude of 4.0 and above that continued to occur daily.
As of August 2021[update], the gross state product (GSP) nominal of Gilgit-Baltistan was $2.5 billion and GSP (nominal) per capita of Gilgit-Baltistan was $1,748.
As of June 2021, there are eight divisions.
As of May 2021, Pakistan operates six licensed commercial nuclear power plants.
As of October 2019[update], more than 32,000 youths have been placed in different jobs and 12,000 have been skill-trained.
As of September 2010[update], over two thousand people had died and over a million homes had been destroyed since the flooding began.
As of present, there are around 400 protected areas in Pakistan that are recognized by International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).
As of the 2017 census, the literacy rate for Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (including FATA) is 51.66%.
As of the 2023 Pakistani census, there are two megacities, ten million-plus cities, in Pakistan.
As of the 2023 census, Kurram district has 94,548 households and a population of 785,434.
As of the 2023 census, Pashto speaking communities made up 92.18% of the population.
As of the 2023 census, Zhob district has 47,901 households and a population of 355,692.
As part of CPEC, China has instead has committed $1.153 billion to finance construction projects and development of the port and adjacent sites.
As per a 2025 Dawn News report, based on data compiled by research organisation Population Council, UK Aid and the United Nations Population, Balochistan had an annual growth rate of 3.20%.
As per a 2025 Dawn News report, based on data compiled by research organisation Population Council, UK Aid and the United Nations Population, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa had an annual growth rate of 2.38%.
As per a 2025 Dawn News report, based on data compiled by research organisation Population Council, UK Aid and the United Nations Population, Sindh had an annual growth rate of 2.57%.
As per details of the contract, the port would remain as property of Pakistan, but would be operated by the state-run Chinese firm – China Overseas Port Holding Company (COPHC).
As per this agreement, 91% of the revenue generated by Gwadar Port will go to COPHC and 9% to Gwadar Port Authority.
As soon as he became the prime minister, Suhrawardy initiated legal work reviving the joint electorate system.
As such, the flora, fauna, and entire ecosystems of these areas rely heavily on the monsoon.
As such, the shift of the jet is sudden and abrupt, causing the bursting of southwest monsoon rains onto the Indian plains.
As the Cabinet Mission failed, the British announced their intention to end rule by June 1948.
As the Himalayas arose during the mid-Miocene period (23.4 to 5.3 mya), it gave rise to the monsoon.
As the Ravi flows past Lahore in Pakistan (26 kilometres (16 mi) below Amritsar in India) it is called "The river of Lahore" since that city is on its eastern bank.
As the Tibetan Plateau heats up, the low pressure created over it pulls the westerly jet north.
As the altitude further declines the Indus basin becomes overall quite slow-flowing as it passes through the Punjab Plain.
As the numbers who went down to graze every year became less, the area under control contracted.
As the physical features of mountains are irregular, with broken jagged contours, there can be wide variations in temperature over short distances.
As the temperature is directly proportional to received radiation from the sun, the faces that receive more direct sunlight also have a greater heat buildup.
As these eventually reached the Eurasian plate, the less buoyant oceanic plate subducted, or slid under Eurasia and was carried into the deeper asthenosphere.
As with ENSO, the atmospheric component of the IOD was later discovered and the cumulative phenomenon named Equatorial Indian Ocean oscillation (EQUINOO).
As with the HHCS, these metamorphic rocks represent the metamorphic equivalent of the sediments forming the base of the Tethys Himalaya.
As with the changing climate in South Asia as a whole, the climate of Pakistan has changed over the past several decades, with significant impacts on the environment and people.
Aside from the Indian and Pakistani military presence, the glacier region is unpopulated.
Astola Island (Urdu: جزِیرہ اَستُولا), also known as Haft Talar and Satadip (lit.
Astola Island experiences a hot desert climate (Köppen BWh), influenced by its coastal position in the Arabian Sea.
Astola Island supports a diverse bird population, with studies recording 61 species across various families.
Astola became a temporary base for mainland fishermen for catching lobsters and oysters.
Astola is the country's largest offshore island, with an area of 6.7 km2 (2.6 sq mi).
At 76 km (47 mi) long, it is the longest glacier in the Karakoram and second-longest in the world's non-polar areas.
At Dir, March remains the wettest month due to frequent frontal cloud bands, whereas in Hazara more than half the rainfall comes from the monsoon.
At Khizarpur village, the Siswan Nadi, a seasonal stream, feed the Sutlej.
At Miri Qalat, some links with Uruk culture ceramics were also found.
At Mithankot these rivers finally meet with the River Indus.
At Muzaffarabad, the intensity peaked at VIII–IX (Severe–Violent).
At Pakistan's inception, the 'hostage theory' suggested fair treatment of Hindus to safeguard Muslims in India.
At Siri Bolan the passage between the limestone rocks hardly admits of three persons riding abreast.
At a height of 2,600 metres (8,500 ft), the lake is centered with an area of 4 km with a picturesque island.
At a press conference on 8 June 2015 in Quetta, Balochistan's Home Minister Sarfraz Bugti accused India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi of openly supporting terrorism.
At an altitude of 1,605 metres (5,266 feet) above sea level, Quetta International Airport is the second-highest airport in Pakistan.
At certain times, the Kushan Empire also held political sway in parts of Balochistan.
At high altitudes, the elusive and previously endangered snow leopard is the main predator.
At its height in the first half of the 19th century, the Sikh Empire spanned a total of over 200,000 sq mi (520,000 km2).
At its inception, Pakistan consisted of two wings, which were separated from each other by around 1,600 kilometres (990 mi) of Indian territory.
At its peak in the 19th century, the Empire extended from the Khyber Pass in the west to western Tibet in the east, and from Mithankot in the south to Kashmir in the north.
At its zenith, the Rai dynasty (489–632 CE) ruled Sindh and the surrounding territories.
At its zenith, the kingdom stretched over the Kabul Valley, Gandhara and western Punjab under Jayapala.
At least 1,350 people were killed and 6,266 injured in Jammu and Kashmir, India.
At least 1.7 million acres (690,000 ha; 2,700 sq mi) of arable land were inundated.
At least 1.7 million acres of arable land has been inundated as a result of the flooding.
At least 159 people were killed, including many children.
At least 165 species of birds have been recorded in Kirthar National Park.
At least 75% of the population in the active delta depend on the fishing industry.
At the Khundilani gorge of the Bolan route conglomerate cliffs which rise to a height of 800 feet (240 m), enclose the valley.
At the Pakistani frontier post, travellers were advised not to wander away from the road, as the location was a barely controlled Federally Administered Tribal Area.
At the ceremony, Bhutto waved his fist in the air and pledged to his nation to never again allow the surrender of his country like what happened with East Pakistan.
At the local level, the city is governed by a municipal corporation consisting of 66 ward members which elects a mayor and a deputy mayor.
At the north-west corner are the Pamir Mountains.
At the southeastern end of Manora island is the Manora Point Lighthouse.
At the summit of K2, only one-third of the oxygen present at sea level is available to climbers.
At the time of Pakistan's independence in 1947, Gwadar remained under Omani authority.
At the time of existence of the Chitral State, the Mehtar and his family use to move here in the summer and hold court.
At the time of partition in 1947, the province was split into East and West Punjab.
At the time of partition, East Bengal had 80 cinemas.
At the time of the 2023 census, 97.65% of the population spoke Pashto and 1.49% Saraiki as their first language.
At the time of the Partition of British India, East Bengal had a plantation economy.
At the time of the Partition of India in 1947, the British abandoned their suzerainty over the princely states, which were left with the options of joining India or Pakistan or remaining independent.
At the time of this expedition, 31 people had already died on the mountain.
At the time, Little Palola (Chinese: 小勃律) was used to refer to Gilgit, while Great Palola (Chinese: 大勃律) was used to refer to Baltistan.
At the time, the volcano was difficult to reach, but since the completion of the highway, visitors to the mud volcanoes have increased significantly.
At this point, the lower catchment drains into the reservoire while the higher slopes drains via tributaries.
At this time (2024) the line from Sibi to Khost still exists but is out of Service.
Auto rickshaws are a popular method of travelling in cities and are found in almost every city and town in Pakistan.
Autumn is pleasant but gets cooler day by day with almost no rainfall.
Autumn starts in mid-September and continues until mid-November with average temperatures in the 12–18 °C (54–64 °F) range.
Average annual rainfall ranges from 100 to 500 mm, and occurs during the short July-to-September southwest monsoon.
Average rainfall in Cholistan is up to 180mm, with July and August being the wettest months, although droughts are common.
Average temperature varies with season, and extremes can range from near-freezing in the winter to more than 50 °C in the summer months.
Average temperatures for the delta region range from 21 to 30 °C (70 to 86 °F) in July, and 10–21 °C (50–70 °F) in January.
Ayub K. Ommaya developed the Ommaya reservoir for treating brain conditions.
Ayub called his regime a "revolution to clean up the mess of black marketing and corruption".
Azad Jammu and Kashmir (Urdu: آزاد جموں و کشمیر, romanised: Āzād Jammū̃ o Kaśmīrⓘ, lit.
Azad Jammu and Kashmir has an almost entirely Muslim population.
Azad Kashmir (Free Kashmir) was the title of a pamphlet issued by the Muslim Conference party at its 13th general session held in 1945 at Poonch.
Azad Kashmir Day is celebrated in Azad Jammu and Kashmir on 24 October, which is the day that the Azad Jammu and Kashmir government was created in 1947.
Azad Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan's census data is yet to be approved by CCI Council of Pakistan.
Azad Kashmir borders with the Pakistani–administered Gilgit–Baltistan to the north; it shares borders with the Pakistani provinces of Punjab and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa to the south and west, respectively.
Azad Kashmir has its own T20 tournament called the Kashmir Premier League, which started in 2021.
Azad Kashmir is home to a vibrant civil society.
Azad Kashmir's budget and tax affairs, are dealt with by the Azad Jammu and Kashmir Council rather than by Pakistan's Central Board of Revenue.
Azad Kashmir's economy largely depends on agriculture, services, tourism, and remittances sent by members of the British Mirpuri community.
B. Bosworth warns against an uncritical reading of Greek sources that were exaggerated.
B. Bosworth warns against an uncritical reading of Greek sources who were obviously exaggerative.
BP which have been offset such as to indicate a slip rate of 25–35 mm/yr.
Babur, the founder of the Mughal Empire, was a patrilineal descendant of Timur with roots in Central Asia.
Bahawalpur is the largest district of Punjab by area.
Baintha, the third campsite, is often used as a rest day.
Baira drains the southern slopes of the Pir Panjal Range.
Baloch on the other hand are found throughout Balochistan, but most highly concentrated in the west and south of the province.
Baloch raiders plundered Mahmud of Ghazni's ambassador between Tabbas and Khabis.
Balochi forms the majority in 21 districts and Pashto forms majority in 9 districts of Balochistan.
Balochistan (or Baluchistan) is located at the eastern edge of the Iranian plateau and in the border region between Southwest, Central, and South Asia.
Balochistan United WFC won the 2014 National Women Championship.
Balochistan is an extensive plateau of rough terrain divided into basins by ranges of sufficient height and ruggedness.
Balochistan is located at the eastern edge of the Iranian plateau and in the border region between Southwest, Central, and South Asia.
Balochistan is located in the southeastern part of the Iranian plateau.
Balochistan is rich in non-renewable and renewable resources; it is the second-largest supplier of natural gas in Pakistan.
Balochistan is situated in the southwest of Pakistan and covers an area of 347,190 square kilometres (134,050 mi2).
Balochistan lies at the mouth of the Strait of Hormuz and provides the shortest route from seaports to Central Asia.
Balochistan marked the westernmost extent of civilisation.
Balochistan's population density is low due to the mountainous terrain and scarcity of water.
Balochistan's share of Pakistan's national income has historically ranged between 3.7% to 4.9%.
Baltistan has more than 100 mountain peaks exceeding 6,100 metres (20,000 ft) height from sea level.
Baluchistan province is the richest in mineral resources available in Pakistan.
Banjosa Lake is a major attraction in Poonch district.
Barugh Hill is situated a few miles north-west of the Gorakh Hill Station, which is situated at an elevation of 5,688 ft (1,734 m).
Barugh Hill is the highest mountain in the Sindh portion of the Kirthars.
Barugh, means "big fat mountain" in the Brahui language, the language of the Sasoli tribe, who still live in the area.
Because 75% of people who climb K2 use the Abruzzi Spur, these listed routes are rarely climbed.
Because more than half of these farmlands are rain-fed, the monsoon is critical to food sufficiency and quality of life.
Because of cross-border firing since the early 1990s, there has been large-scale migration away from these villages.
Because of differences in the specific heat capacity of land and water, continents heat up faster than seas.
Because of the extensive preservation efforts and upkeep, Taxila is one of Punjab's popular tourist spots, attracting up to one million tourists every year.
Because of the lofty Himalayas, the westerly jet's movement is inhibited.
Because of the nomadic way of life, the main wealth of the people are their cattle that are bred for sale, milked or shorn for their wool.
Because of their rugged topography and the rigors of the climate, the northern highlands and the Himalayas to the east have been formidable barriers to movement into Pakistan throughout history.
Because of this land was also the main source of revenue for the governments whose primary purpose for centuries was to accumulate revenue.
Because of this, Pakistan has a multicultural, multilinguistic, and multiethnic society.
Because of this, the International Union for Conservation of Nature commissioned Norwegian biologist Per Wegge to do a wildlife survey of the park in 1988.
Because the Indus river has switched its location at various points in history, it has an "active" delta region, and total delta region (all area that was once a part of the delta).
Because the boundaries between India and Pakistan are poorly demarcated in some areas (e.g.
Because the southwest monsoon flows from sea to land, it carries more moisture, and therefore causes more rain, than the northeast monsoon.
Before 1978, Gilgit-Baltistan was cut off from the rest of the Pakistan and the world due to the harsh terrain and the lack of accessible roads.
Before that it killed 213 people in Karachi on its way to Balochistan.
Before that, students from Naval College Karachi and Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute also made a successful hybrid car, but Devrim II is the most effective one.
Before the India-Eurasia collision in Middle Paleocene (60 Mya) and subsequent Himalayan orogeny, two other landmasses, the Qiangtang terrane and Lhasa terrane,[e] had drifted up from Gondwana.
Before the arrival of Islam, the majority of the population in the region practiced Buddhism.
Before the demise of Shribadat, a group of Shina people migrated from Gilgit Dardistan and settled in the Dras and Kharmang areas.
Before the orogeny, the Eurasian coastline had been similar to today's Central Andes.
Before winter, the IRC distributed warm clothing and bedding and assisted in rebuilding homes and infrastructure, supporting long-term recovery efforts.
Beijing Underpass, Lahore is the longest underpass of Pakistan with a length of about 1.3 km (0.81 mi).
Being strategically located, it has also been used by traders, invaders, and nomadic tribes as a gateway to and from South Asia.
Bengali Muslims formed the predominant majority, followed by Bengali Hindus, Bengali Buddhists and Bengali Christians.
Bengali politicians pushed for more autonomy, arguing that much of Pakistan's export earnings were generated in East Pakistan from the exportation of Bengali jute and tea.
Bengalis were also upset that West Pakistan, the seat of the national government, received more foreign aid.
Berella is used for milk production, and can produce 10–15 liters of milk per day per animal.
Besal, or Besar, a town just before the Lulusar Lake, is fifteen kilometers from the lake.
Besides a large variety of marine fish, the plumbeous dolphin, the beaked dolphin, rorqual or blue whale and skates frequent the seas along the Sindh coast.
Besides atomic bomb project, he made significant contributions in molecular morphology, physical martensite, and their applications in condensed and material physics.
Besides the fort Birmoghlasht also houses a wildlife hut and is a great tourist spot in a few kilometres drive from Chitral town.
Better rains also result in increased hydroelectric production.
Between 1 and 2 August 2008, 11 climbers from several expeditions died during a series of accidents, including several icefalls in the Bottleneck.
Between 1951 and 2023, Pakistan's population expanded over sevenfold, going from 33.7 million to 241.5 million.
Between 1984 and 1999, frequent skirmishes took place between India and Pakistan.
Between 1998 and 2017, the average annual population growth rate stood at +2.40%.
Between 1999 and 2018, Pakistan ranked 5th in the countries affected by extreme weather caused by climate change.
Between 399 and 414, the Chinese Buddhist pilgrim Faxian visited Gilgit-Baltistan.
Between 627 and 645, the Chinese Buddhist pilgrim Xuanzang travelled through this region on his pilgrimage to India.
Between 644 and 655, Navasurendrāditya-nandin became king of the Palola Sāhi dynasty in Gilgit.
Between 723 and 728, the Korean Buddhist pilgrim Hyecho passed through this area.
Between 7–26 March, East Pakistan was virtually under the popular control of the Awami League.
Between January 2012 and July 2015, 33 Indian soldiers died due to adverse weather.
Between July and November when the monsoon winds blow onshore from the ocean, giant olive ridley turtles lay their eggs along the seaward side.
Between the months of November and May the area of Deosai is snow bound.
Between the river's course from Ropar and Firozpur, many natural streams and artificial drains feed.
Between these ranges of the Himalayas is an area the people of Central and South Asia consider to be the roof of the world.
Beyond the western terminus of the tribunal's award, the final stretch of Pakistan's border with India is about 80 kilometres long, running east and southeast of Sindh to an inlet of the Indian Ocean.
Bhati dominions continued to shift southwards: they ruled Multan, then finally got pushed into Cholistan and Jaisalmer, where Rawal Devaraja built Dera Rawal / Derawar.
Bhimber is home to most of them, followed by Mirpur and Muzaffarabad.
Bhutan, Sikkim, and Ladakh are also dotted with numerous monasteries.
Bhutto conceded to some Islamist demands before being ousted in a coup.
Bhutto later distanced himself from Yahya Khan after he was arrested by Military Police along with Mujib.
Bhutto's policy, and even today the policy of Pakistan, is that "she will continue to fight for the honour and integrity of Pakistan".
Bikaner and Jaisalmer are the largest cities located entirely in the desert.
Bird populations peak around December–January, due to an increase in the population of migratory and winter visitor species.
Blackbuck are kept in enclosures for a reintroduction project.
Bloody guerrilla warfare ensued in East Pakistan.
Bolan Pass (Urdu: درۂ بولان) is a valley and a natural gateway through the Toba Kakar range in Balochistan province of Pakistan.
Bolan Pass is described as a pass over a lofty range that is full of ravines and gorges.
Bonatti and Mehdi survived, but Mehdi was hospitalised for months and had to have his toes amputated because of frostbite.
Bonatti was given the blame for Mehdi's hospitalisation.
Bordering the mountains to the east are the plains of the Indus River valley, and to the north are the arid highlands of the Central Hindu Kush whose heights extend up to 3,383 m (11,099 ft).
Both Bhutto and Mujib strongly disliked General Khan, but patiently endured him and his government as he had promised to hold an election in 1970.
Both India and Pakistan claim sovereignty over the entire Siachen region.
Both India and Pakistan continue to deploy thousands of troops in the vicinity of Siachen and attempts to demilitarize the region have been so far unsuccessful.
Both India and Pakistan have wished to disengage from the costly military outposts.
Both Indian and Pakistani Punjab is considered to have the best infrastructure of their respective countries.
Both Port of Karachi and Port Qasim handle significant shipping traffic, resulting in oil discharge, some of which reaches the delta.
Both Saraiki and Hindko have been enumerated separately from Punjabi in the Pakistani censuses of 1981 and 2017.
Both agree that they were sixth-largest mangrove forests in the world.
Both areas were islands until well into the colonial era, when silting in led to them being connected to the mainland.
Both countries maintain a permanent military presence in the region at a height of over 6,000 m (20,000 ft).
Both lengths are commonly found in modern publications; in some cases, both measurements can be found within the same work.
Both men and women typically wear Shalwar Kameez; men also favor trousers, jeans, and shirts.
Both military and civilian governments have historically used such tactics.
Both nations signed a Free Trade Agreement in 2006, with China making its largest investment in Pakistan's history through CPEC.
Both of them showed their commitment to resolve the Siachen conflict as early as possible.
Both ranges have been used throughout history for invasions of the Indian subcontinent.
Both regions are subject to two monsoon seasons - one in winter and the other in summer.
Brahui is spoken by 17.22% mainly in the central part of Balochistan.
Britain had pledged voluntary independence for India in exchange for support during the war.
Britain's High Commissioner Thomas Drew in Pakistan termed the mission "remarkable and dangerous".
British East India Company defeated the Sikhs during the Second Anglo-Sikh War in 1849, and incorporated small parts of the region into the Province of Punjab.
British architectural influence persists in structures across Lahore, Peshawar, and Karachi.
British troops constructed the infrastructure for their establishment as a garrison town.
Brown ensured that the treasury was secured and minorities were protected.
Brown outmaneuvered the pro-Independence group and secured the approval of the mirs and rajas for accession to Pakistan.
Bruce Normand and Timothy Miller from the UK were successfully rescued alive while their companion Christian Huber from Austria had succumbed to the avalanche.
Buddhism and, to a lesser extent, Bön were the primary religions in the area.
Buddhism later disappeared and locals were forced to convert to Islam.
Buddhism was widespread in the ancient Hindu Kush region.
Buhl's climb was also later dramatized by Canadian film director Donald Shebib in the 1986 film The Climb.
Built by Chinese workers and opened in 2007, Gwadar is undergoing a major expansion to turn it into a full-fledged, deep-water commercial port.
Bus service in urban areas and between cities is well established with services run by both public and private sectors.
Business established in the special economic zone will be exempt from Pakistani income, sales, and federal excise taxes for 23 years.
But ever since the commence of commercial operations in the port, all this will result in environmental consequences.
But in Central Asia, as there is no substantial source for water to be diffused as vapour, the winter winds blowing across South Asia are dry.
But it was devoid of legislative powers.
But the League failed to win a single seat in West Pakistan, where the Pakistan Peoples Party emerged as the single largest party with 81 seats.
But this simple view has been successfully challenged by more recent research.
But with continuous dropping pressure, sufficient force is created for the movement of the westerly jet across the Himalayas after a significant period.
But with the Government of Balochistan managing the park, many areas still require reforms.
But with the advent of globalization, such travel is gaining popularity.
By 1750–1800, the Sutlej river absorbed the old bed of the Beas which ran through the high-bar of the Bari Doab.
By 1840 he conquered Skardu and captured its ruler, Ahmad Shah.
By 1893, all modern Pakistan was part of the British Indian Empire, and remained so until independence in 1947.
By 1942, Britain faced considerable strain during World War II, with India directly threatened by Japanese forces.
By 1943 all bridges and track between Khost and Bostan had been recovered.
By 1947 Pashtun nationalists were advocating for a united India, and no prominent voices advocated for a union with Afghanistan.
By 1947 the majority of the ulama in the province began supporting the Muslim League's idea of Pakistan.
By 1966, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman emerged as the preeminent opposition leader in Pakistan and launched the six-point movement for autonomy and democracy.
By 2016 the island had completely submerged.
By 2025, it is envisaged that manufacturing and processing industries will be developed, while further expansion of the zone is intended to be complete by 2030.
By 721/722, Baltistan had come under the influence of the Tibetan Empire.
By 747, the Chinese army under the leadership of the ethnic-Korean commander Gao Xianzhi had recaptured Little Palola.
By at least 719/720, Ladakh (Mard) became part of the Tibetan Empire.
By comparison in more recent times the last place of Hindu pilgrimage in Makran was Hinglaj, 256 km west of present-day Karachi in Las Bela.
By its own financial calculations, Pakistan's involvement in the war on terrorism has cost up to $118 billion, over eighty one thousand casualties, and more than 1.8 million displaced civilians.
By mid-February the temperature begins to rise; springtime weather continues until mid-April, when the summer heat sets in.
By some accounts, the University of ancient Taxila is considered to be one of the earliest universities in the world.
By that time, Buddhism was practised in Baltistan, and Sanskrit was the written language.
By the 16th century, Muslims were the majority in the region and an elaborate network of mosques and mausoleums marked the landscape.
By the 1950s, East Bengal surpassed West Bengal in having the largest jute industries in the world.
By the early Vedic period, parts of the Indus region in present-day Pakistan were populated by numerous tribes that were beginning to coalesce into chieftain-led clans and early kingdoms.
By the end of 2005, a total of 1,778 aftershocks were recorded.
By the late 19th century, the official boundaries of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region still had not been defined as the region was still claimed by the Kingdom of Afghanistan.
By the mid-1960s, East Pakistan was accounting for less than 60% of the nation's export earnings, and by the time Bangladesh gained its independence in 1971, this percentage had dipped below 50%.
By the time Ibn Batuta reached the Indus delta, Debal had been abandoned due to increased shoaling preventing the then-port from accessing the sea.
By the time of Julius Caesar, several well-established combined land-sea trade routes depended upon water transport through the sea around the rough inland terrain features to its north.
By these agreements, India Ports Global Pvt.
By this time, according to Chinese records, the king of Little Palola was Mo-ching-mang (Chinese: 沒謹忙; pinyin: méijǐnmáng).
COPHC plans to eventually expand the port's capacity to 400 million tons of cargo per year.
COPHC will additionally build cargo terminals in the 12 kilometres (7.5 mi) of land to the north and northwest of the site along the shoreline of the Demi Zirr bay.
COPHC will also build cargo terminals in the 12 kilometres of land to the north and northwest of the site along the shoreline of the Demi Zirr bay.
COPHC will also expand Gwadar Port with construction of multipurpose berths on 3.2 kilometres (2.0 mi) of seafront to the east of the existing multipurpose berths.
Called "The Granary of India" or "The Bread Basket of India", Indian Punjab produces 1% of the world's rice, 2% of its wheat, and 2% of its cotton.
Camel wool is spun and woven into beautiful woolen blankets known as falsies and into stylish and durable rugs.
Camels are also commonly used for transportation throughout the region.
Camels are highly valued by the desert dwellers.
Camels are not only useful for transportation and loading purposes, but its skin and wool are also quite valuable.
Camels in particular are prized in Cholistan for their meat and milk, use as transportation, and for entertainment such as racing and camel dancing.
Campsites along the Biafo are located off the glacier, adjacent to the lateral moraines and steep mountainsides.
Caravanserais were built for travelers to spend the night.
Catches of mangrove dependent fish were valued at $20 million annually, shrimp at $70 million and mud crabs at $3 million.
Caught by darkness, he was forced to bivouac standing upright on a narrow ledge, holding a small handhold with one hand.
Central Pakistan's sandy scrublands shelter Asiatic jackals, striped hyenas, wildcats, and leopards.
Central Sindh's maximum temperature typically reaches 43–44 °C (109–111 °F).
Central Sindh's temperatures are generally lower than those of upper Sindh but higher than those of lower Sindh.
Centuries before the arrival of Islam in the seventh century, parts of Balochistan were ruled by the Paratarajas, an Indo-Scythian dynasty.
Certain Kashmiri independence groups believe that Kashmir should be independent of both India and Pakistan.
Chabahar was developed in 1972 as the oceanic port in Iran, and already features ten berths as of 2016, with a capacity to dock vessels of 80,000 deadweight tonnage.
Chagai is the largest district of Pakistan by area while Lahore District is the largest by population with a total population of 11,126,285 at the 2017 census.
Chandragupta Maurya fought Alexander's successor in the east, Seleucus I Nicator, when the latter invaded.
Chandragupta Maurya fought Alexander's successor in the east, Seleucus when the latter invaded.
Chandragupta Maurya, with the aid of Kautilya, had established his empire around 320 BCE.
Chandragupta and Seleucus made a peace settlement in 304 BCE.
Chandragupta's rule was very well organised.
Chandragupta's son Bindusara further expanded the empire.
Chaotic and periodic variations have been observed over different regions of the Earth and varying spans of time.
Charles Houston returned to K2 to lead the 1953 American expedition.
Chattha State was annexed when Jan muhammad Chattha was killed in a siege led by Ranjit Singh when the latter recovered the lost Chattha state with Afghan aid.
Chemical run-off into the river threatens many species.
Children were at a heightened risk of developing psychological issues, including PTSD due to the traumatic experience of witnessing death and destruction.
China and Afghanistan contain the remaining 14%.
China and Pakistan have both undertaken constructive measures to facilitate the advancement of the CPEC project.
China has been a significant buyer of Pakistani textiles, importing US$1.527 billion worth of textiles in 2012.
China provided $6.2 million in aid, deployed a 49-member rescue team with sniffer dogs, and sent US$1 million in cash and the first batch of rescue materials for immediate relief.
China will also grant Pakistan $230 million to construct a new international airport in Gwadar which opened in 2024.
China's stake in Gwadar will also allow it to expand its influence in the Indian Ocean, a vital route for oil transportation between the Atlantic and the Pacific.
Chitral Gol National Park (Urdu: چترال گول نیشنل پارک) is one of the National Parks of Pakistan.
Chitral is the largest by area and Peshawar is the largest by population from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa with a population of 4,269,079 in the 2017 census.
Cholistan covers an area of 25,800 km2 (10,000 sq mi) in the Bahawalpur Division of Punjab.
Cholistan is now selling the wool for it brings maximum profit.
Cholistan produces a very superior type of carpet wool compared to that produced in other parts of Pakistan.
Cholistan till the era of Mughal rule had also been isolated from outside influence.
Cholistan was a center for caravan trade, leading to the construction of numerous forts in the medieval period to protect trade routes—of which the Derawar Fort is the best-preserved example.
Cholistan was formed during the Pleistocene period.
Cholistan's climate is characterized as an arid and semi-arid Tropical desert, with very low annual humidity.
Cholistani khusas are very famous for the quality of workmanship, variety, and richness of designs especially when stitched and embroidered with golden or brightly colored threads.
Christians are the next largest religious minority after Hindus, constituting 1.37% of the population.
Chronic stomach ailments are common due to the quality of water available.
Chunri is another form of dopattas, having innumerable colors and patterns like dots, squares, and circles on it.
Citizens would also be awarded medals when they reach a certain threshold of points.
City populations found in this list only refer to the population found within the city's defined limits and any adjacent cantonment, if exists (except for Gujranwala and Okara).
Civil society in Pakistan is hierarchical, emphasizing local cultural etiquette and traditional Islamic values.
Claims of health and long life were almost always based solely on the statements by the local mir (king).
Clashes with the judicature prompted Gilani's disqualification from the Parliament and as the Prime Minister in June 2012.
Climate change has adversely effected this region with more rains every year.
Climate change in Pakistan is a major issue for the country.
Climate change makes such heatwaves 100 times more likely.
Climate change poses a significant menace to Pakistan's economy and security.
Climate change will also lead to the degradation of up to 81% of the region's permafrost by the end of the century.
Climate experts criticized the outcomes, saying that the real challenge is to implement the decisions.
Climate in Swat is a function of altitude, with mountains in the Kohistan region snow-clad year round.
Climate is not uniform over the whole region, as the areas adjacent to the Himalayas generally receive heavier rainfall than those at a distance.
Climate of the valley remains pleasant most of the summer however in winters minimum temperature is usually below freezing point, occasionally mercury drop below -10 degree Celsius.
Climatically, East Pakistan was essentially humid, hot climate with heavy to very heavy rainfall.
Coal of a medium quality is also found here.
Coarser deposits occur in the north closer to the Salt Range, but otherwise the distribution of grain sizes is irregular.
Collecting his forces in Multan, Khizr Khan defeated and killed Mallu Iqbal Khan in Delhi in 1405.
Collectively, Lahore and Multan subahs, and parts of Delhi subah, comprised Mughal Punjab.
Colonel MOG Osmani was appointed the Commander in Chief of Liberation Forces and whole East Pakistan was divided into eleven sectors headed by eleven sector commanders.
Command and control over Pakistan's strategic arsenal development and employment is vested in the National Command Authority, overseeing work on nuclear doctrine to maintain Full spectrum deterrence.
Comparing this tank with those in other forts may help in assigning a relative date to its construction.
Concurrently, the Tomara dynasty and Katoch Dynasty controlled eastern Punjab, resisting Ghaznavid invasions.
Congress under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi launched the Quit India Movement, demanding an immediate end to British rule.
Consequentially, a thousand members of the Muslim League were imprisoned.
Consequently, most of the reported health problems in Pakistan are either a direct or indirect result of polluted water.
Consequently, the air above coastal lands heats up faster than the air above seas.
Consequently, the hills and the grazing grounds passed from the Turizun to the Zaimushtzun and as the other Zaimushts section being unopposed had settled themselves on the left bank below Sadda.
Consequently, this contributes to Pakistan's ongoing struggle with poverty.
Consequently, this will significantly impact the productivity and efficiency of water-dependent sectors such as agriculture and energy.
Consequently, with the ITCZ at the Tropic of Cancer, the southeast trade winds of the Southern Hemisphere have to cross the equator to reach it.
Conservation efforts by provincial authorities and NGOs should promote sustainable ecotourism, enforce protection laws, and maintain the ecological balance of the river basin.
Constitutional amendments in 2010 curtailed presidential powers, enhancing the role of the prime minister.
Construction began in June 2016 on the Gwadar Special Economic Zone, which is being built on 2,292-acre site adjacent to Gwadar's port.
Construction on Phase 1 of the project began in 2002 after the agreement for its construction was signed during the state visit of Chinese Premier Zhu Rongji in 2001.
Conversely, in the western regions of Punjab that ultimately became Pakistani Punjab, all districts became almost exclusively Muslim by 1951.
Conversely, low pressure over Darwin bodes well for precipitation quantity in India.
Cotton turbans and shawls are also made here.
Coulomb stress transfer is used to quantify how earthquakes release stress, identifying areas that are put under increased stress and those that have been unloaded.
Countries worldwide responded quickly with financial and logistical aid.
Craterus was ordered to fortify and repopulate Arigaion, probably in Bajaur, which its inhabitants had burnt and deserted.
Creeks in Indus Delta in Pakistan are listed from west to east as follows, many of which fall within the Keti Bunder South Wildlife Sanctuary which is a Ramsar site.
Cricket is the main sport played in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Cricket is the most popular sport in Pakistan, followed by football.
Critically endangered, it thrives in open grasslands and semi-arid regions.
Crocodiles are rare and inhabit only the backwaters of the Indus, eastern Nara channel and Karachi backwater.
Crops grown here supply grains to the capital region and to Dalhousie town and its surrounding areas.
Crush plants situated around the hills near Taxila are busy eroding the hills for extracting building material.
Cultivated crops such as chickpeas, wheat, maize and rice are also an important food source to the granivorous birds.
Current production is concentrated in the lower Indus Basin and in Kohat-Potwar geologic province.
Currently around 52 minerals, are mined and processed in Pakistan.
Currently the Sindh government is planning to divide the Tharparkar district into Tharparkar and Chhachro districts.
Currently, Gilgit-Baltistan is neither a province nor a state.
Currently, flights are being operated by PIA to Gilgit on the brand-new ATR 42–500, which was purchased in 2006.
Cyclones form in the Arabian sea often results in strong winds and heavy rainfall in Pakistan's coastal areas.
D. Subbarao, former governor of the Reserve Bank of India, emphasized during a quarterly review of India's monetary policy that the lives of Indians depend on the performance of the monsoon.
Dacca was declared as the second capital of Pakistan and planned as the home of the national parliament.
Dacca was declared as the second capital of Pakistan in 1962.
Dacca's population increased in the 1960s.
Damming has also isolated the delta population of Indus River dolphins from those further upstream.
Dards are found mainly in the western areas.
Data entry error has occurred in Sindh Province.
Death of the Indus river dolphin has also been attributed to fishermen using poison to kill fish and scooping them up.
Debal also seemed to be the base of pirates from the tribe of Nagamara.
Debal remained a port, and the last recorded mention of it was in 1223 AD.
Deforestation is resulting from fires and illegal felling of trees.
Democracy ended with a military coup in 1977 against the leftist PPP, which saw General Zia-ul-Haq become the president in 1978.
Democracy faced setbacks due to the martial law imposed by President Iskander Mirza, who was succeeded by General Ayub Khan.
Deosai National Park (Urdu: دیوسائی نیشنل پارک) is a high-altitude alpine plain and national park located between the Skardu District and Astore District in Gilgit-Baltistan, Pakistan.
Deosai National Park is located in Western Himalayas in Gilgit Baltistan, Pakistan.
Deosai is accessible from Astore District in the west, Skardu District in the north, and Galtari Tehsil of Skardu District in the south-east.
Deosai is located approximately 30 kilometres (19 mi) from Skardu city, which is the shortest route to visit Deosai.
Deputy commissioners are appointed by the government from the Pakistan Administrative Service.
Dera Ismail Khan is one of the hottest places in South Asia while in the mountains to the north the weather is mild in the summer and intensely cold in the winter.
Derawar Fort in the Cholistan Desert is the site for the annual Cholistan Jeep Rally.
Desert safaris on camels have become increasingly popular around Jaisalmer.
Despite PIA's domination in domestic market there are also 4 other carriers in Pakistan.
Despite Taimur Sultan's eventual recovery of power in Muscat, the Omani administration continued to hold sway over Gwadar through the appointment of local governors.
Despite bans and legal action, illegal mining persists, highlighting significant governance and enforcement challenges.
Despite being officially launched in 2002, the city faced protests and tension for the past year.
Despite challenges faced by the Pakistani film industry, Urdu televised dramas and theatrical performances remain popular, frequently broadcast by many entertainment media outlets.
Despite changes in Pakistani governance and regional/global dynamics, China's influence in Pakistan remains paramount.
Despite constituting only 4.6% of the total road length, these north–south links manage 85% of the nation's traffic.
Despite having lived in the province for over two decades, they are registered as citizens of Afghanistan.
Despite its statuesque appearance, however, the pinnacle owes its form purely to ocean winds and other natural forces of erosion.
Despite many initiatives and holding off the NFC Award Program, Suhrawardy's political position and image deteriorated in the four provinces in West Pakistan.
Despite military activities, trade continued to thrive there.
Despite numerous attempts, the first successful winter ascent occurred only in 2021.
Despite progress in alternative forms of irrigation, agricultural dependence on the monsoon remains far from insignificant.
Despite substantial aid, logistical difficulties hindered efficient relief efforts.
Despite the UN arms embargo on Bosnia, the ISI under General Javed Nasir airlifted anti-tank weapons and missiles to Bosnian mujahideen, shifting the tide in favor of Bosnian Muslims.
Despite the apparently one-sided results, Alexander was impressed by Porus and chose to not depose him.
Despite the retreat and tragic end, the expedition has been given iconic status in mountaineering history.
Despite their scale, the Himalayas do not form a major continental divide, and a number of rivers cut through the range, particularly in the eastern part of the range.
Despite this, Pakistan's wheat production in 2005 surpassed Africa's and nearly matched South America's, highlighting its agricultural significance.
Despite this, agriculture and livestock make up about 47% of Balochistan's economy.
Developments in science and technology have played a significant role in Pakistan's infrastructure, linking the nation to the global community.
Different rates of heating and cooling between the Central Asian continent and the Indian Ocean create large differences in the atmospheric pressure prevailing above each.
Different sources often differ by many meters, and many mountains in the Karakorum differ by over 100 metres on different maps.
Disheartened and isolated, Admiral Ahsan took early retirement from the Navy and quietly settled in Karachi.
Distance from the provincial capital, Bombay, led to grievances that Sindh was neglected in contrast to other parts of the Presidency.
Disturbances in the region increased as the war continued.
Divergence in the relationship between Hinduism and Islam resulted in significant tension in British India, leading to religious violence.
Dogri, Kangri, and other western Pahari dialects are spoken in the north-central and northeastern parts of the region, while Bagri is spoken in south-central and southeastern sections.
Dohian Mali lake Jalkad Located approximately 5 km from the Nori Top road base camp, at the beginning of Jalkad Mali, are two lakes known as Dohian Mali lakes.
Domestic and international tourists frequent the desert seeking adventure on camels for one to several days.
Donald Shebib's 1986 film The Climb covers the story of Hermann Buhl making the first ascent.
Dost Muhammad Khan's son, Mohammad Akbar Khan engaged with Sikh forces the Battle of Jamrud of 1837, in which prominent sikh commander Hari Singh was killed.
Dramatic social changes have led to urbanization and the emergence of two megacities: Karachi and Lahore.
Dredging will enable docking of larger ships with a deadweight tonnage of up to 70,000 at Gwadar Port, while current capacity permits a maximum 20,000 DWT.
Drier, warmer temperatures in the lower portions in the Yousafzai Plains where summer temperatures can reach 105 °F (41 °C), although the lower plains experience occasional snow.
Drivers charge according to a meter located on the dashboard of the car, but fares can be negotiated if there is no meter.
Dry hot days and cool nights are typical during the summer.
Dudipatsar Lake (Urdu: دودی پت سر جھیل), also known as Dudipat Lake, is a lake encircled by snow-clad peaks in Lulusar-Dudipatsar National Park.
Due partly to strained relations with India, Pakistan has close ties with Turkey and Iran, both focal points in its foreign policy.
Due to British policies, much land in Sindh was transferred from Muslim to Hindu hands over the decades.
Due to a high fertility rate, which was estimated at 3.5 in 2022, Pakistan has one of the world's youngest populations.
Due to extreme weather and uncertain economic outcomes, rural communities in Pakistan have been displaced in large numbers to major cities.
Due to its altitude and ruggedness, the Karakoram is much less inhabited than parts of the Himalayas further east.
Due to its climatic condition Kurram Agency is known for certain agricultural products throughout Pakistan such as peanut, bean, tomatoes and coarse rice.
Due to its remote location, the region has a dry temperate zone and a wet monsoon temperate zone, providing visitors with a diverse range of flora and fauna.
Due to its support for Azerbaijan in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, Pakistan has not established diplomatic relations with Armenia.
Due to more awareness about their importance in conservation of biodiversity, 10 national parks have been established during the time period from 1993 to 2005.
Due to security issues, it is recommended to spend the night at this camp and leave for the lake in the morning.
Due to the floods and severe drought conditions, the province faces food insecurity and is 85% dependent on the Sindh and Punjab provinces for the supply of wheat.
Due to the semi-arid climate of Sindh the left out forests support an average population of jackals and snakes.
Due to the strategic importance of East Pakistan, the Pakistani union was a member of the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization.
Dumping of non-biodegradable waste in large quantities and the use of arms and ammunition have considerably affected the ecosystem of the region.
During 1858–1860, the Raja of Bharmour had considered the Budhil valley as an excellent source of Deodar trees for supply to the British Raj.
During 2024 general election, PTI-backed independents became the largest bloc, but Shehbaz Sharif was elected prime minister for a second term, as a result of a coalition between PML (N) and PPPP.
During Ghazi Malik's reign, in 1321 he sent his eldest son Jauna Khan, later known as Muhammad bin Tughlaq, to Deogir to plunder the Hindu kingdoms of Arangal and Tilang (now part of Telangana).
During Mughal period Punjab region was divided into two provinces; Province of Multan and Province of Lahore.
During Period II, the building of massive architectural structures continued, and a quadrangular stone complex was built.
During Sikh rule, an Italian named Paolo Avitabile was appointed an administrator of Peshawar in 1838, and is remembered for having unleashed a reign of fear there.
During World War II, additional water was required for troops stationed at Karachi.
During World War II, concrete dragon's teeth were erected on the valley floor due to British fears of an invasion of India by the Axis powers.
During a clear sunny day, Nanga Parbat peak can be seen from the location of the lake.
During floods, Indus river water flows into the Indian part of the Great Rann of Kutch.
During his reign, the Greek explorer Scylax of Caryanda was commissioned to explore the course of the Indus.
During spring, the surrounding area is covered with a wide variety of flowers and butterflies.
During summer, from mid-April to the end of June, the temperature may reach 48 °C (118 °F).
During summer, hot winds called Loo blow across the plains during the day.
During summer, monsoon floods of the Jhelum and Leepa river are common, due to high rainfall and melting snow.
During summer, monsoon floods of the Jhelum and Leepa rivers are common, due to high rainfall and melting snow.
During the 1950s, Afghanistan supported the Pushtunistan Movement, a secessionist movement that failed to gain substantial support amongst the tribes of the North-West Frontier Province.
During the 1967 Arab-Israel war, Pakistan supported the Arab states and played a key role in securing Iran's backing for the Arab cause both within the U.N. and beyond.
During the 1970s, Pakistan acted as an intermediary in U.S.-China rapprochement, facilitating US President Richard Nixon's historic visit to China.
During the 1990s, Pakistan began an ongoing project to rebuild all national highways throughout the country specifically to important financial, cargo and textile centers.
During the 2nd millennium BC, the Punjab region was mentioned in the Rigveda hymns as Sapta Sindhu and in the Avesta religious texts as Hapta Həndu (both terms meaning "seven rivers").
During the COVID-19 pandemic in Pakistan, government agencies continued their reforestation program, creating 60,000 jobs among the unemployed.
During the Cold War the Hindu Kush range became a strategic theatre, especially during the 1980s when Soviet forces and their Afghan allies fought the Afghan mujahideen channelled through Pakistan.
During the Early Permian, this rift developed into the Neotethys ocean (Fig.
During the Ice Age, the glacier snowline was about 1,300 metres (4,300 ft) lower than today.
During the India-Eurasia collision, two elongated protrusions located on either side of the northern border of the Indian continent generated areas of extreme deformation.
During the Mughal Period, the Pothohar was a part of the Subah of Lahore.
During the Mughal era, Persian-Islamic design merged with Hindustani art, seen in Lahore's architectural gems like the Badshahi Mosque and the Lahore Fort with the iconic Alamgiri Gate.
During the Soviet–Afghan War in the 1980s, it was a close ally of the United States.
During the Soviet–Afghan War, Pakistan's intelligence community, mostly the ISI, coordinated US resources to support Afghan mujahideen and foreign fighters against Soviet presence.
During the caliphate of Ali, a revolt broke out in southern Balochistan's Makran region.
During the caliphate of Ali, many Jats of Sindh had come under the influence of Shi'ism and some even participated in the Battle of Camel and died fighting for Ali.
During the independence period there was a Congress-led ministry in the province, which was led by secular Pashtun leaders, including Bacha Khan, who preferred joining India instead of Pakistan.
During the last days of his Prime ministerial years, Suhrawardy tried to remove the economic disparity between the Eastern and Western wings of the country but to no avail.
During the meeting, high commanders of the Pakistan Armed Forces unanimously recommended an armed and violent military action.
During the mid-2000s, a multibillion-dollar reconstruction began in the aftermath of the 2005 Kashmir earthquake.
During the most of 15th century, the Khokhars and Gakhars tribes were in general revolt in the Pothohar region.
During the rule of Mughal Emperor Akbar, it became a proper productive unit.
During the same years, the second dominant land cover was barren areas, including bare soil and bare rock.
During the siege of the city's citadel, Alexander leaped into the inner area of the citadel, where he faced the Mallians' leader.
During the summer months of April and May, they move across north India.
During the summer season, monsoon floods of the rivers Jhelum and Leepa are common due to extreme rains and snow melting.
During the summer, people could walk across the mountain passes to travel to Rawalpindi.
During the summer, the delta experiences intense monsoonal winds from the southwest, causing parts of the delta to be covered by sea-water.
During the times of Indus Valley Civilisation (3300 BCE – 1700 BCE) the Khyber Pass through Hindu Kush provided a route to other neighbouring empires and was used by merchants on trade excursions.
During the transitional period from winter to summer, sudden hailstorms and heavy showers may occur, causing damage to crops.
During the treks, tourists are able to view the fragile and beautiful ecosystem of the Thar Desert.
During the winter of 2010, it received no snow and saw below normal rains due to the presence of El-Nino over Pakistan.
During the winter the winds in the delta come from the northeast.
During this era, the Rigveda was composed in Punjab, laying the foundation of Hinduism.
During this period, Sufi missionaries played a pivotal role in converting a majority of the regional population to Islam.
During this period, the Vedas, the oldest scriptures of Hinduism, were composed.
During this time, strong nationalistic sentiments in East Pakistan were perceived by the Pakistani Armed Forces and the central military government.
Dust storms, resulting from unsteady thermal conditions, are also common in the summer months.
Each Department is headed by a Provincial Minister (Politician) and a Provincial Secretary (A civil servant of usually BPS-20 or BPS-21).
Each division is split up into anywhere between two and nine districts, and there are 38 districts in the entire province.
Each division is under an appointed commissioner.
Each major route involved transhipping to pack animal caravan, travel through desert country and risk of bandits and extortionate tolls by local potentates.
Each of the three mega-units is internally imbricated into several individual nappes.
Each province ran its own separate provincial gubernatorial governments.
Each tehsil comprises certain numbers of union councils.
Each year, the Pakistan Academy of Sciences and the government invite scientists worldwide to the International Nathiagali Summer College on Physics.
Each zone, flanked by the thrust faults on its north and south, has stratigraphy (type of rocks and their layering) different from the adjacent zones.
Earlier the river was also called Shutudri or Zaradros river, a name which was mentioned in the Hindu texts.
Earlier work showed that sand and silt from western Tibet was reaching the Arabian Sea by 45 million years ago, implying the existence of an ancient Indus River by that time.
Earlier, he served as the governor of Multan and fought 28 battles against Mongols from there and saved Punjab and Sindh regions from the advances of Mongols and survived.
Earlier, the Punjab was known as Sapta Sindhu in the Rigveda or Hapta Hendu in Avesta, translating into "The Land of Seven Rivers", with the other two being Indus and Kabul.
Early historical kingdoms that arose in the Indus Valley include Gandhāra and Sindhu-Sauvīra.
Early in the expedition Alfred Drexel died, likely due to high altitude pulmonary edema.
East Pakistan inherited 17 districts from British Bengal.
East Pakistan was almost entirely an alluvial plain which consists of lower course of the Padma and Jamuna.
East Pakistan was formed with West Pakistan at the reorganisation of One Unit Scheme orchestrated by the 3rd prime minister of Pakistan, Mohammad Ali.
East Pakistan was home to 55% of Pakistan's population.
East Pakistan's districts are listed in the following.
East Pakistan[b] was the eastern province of Pakistan between 1956 and 1971, restructured and renamed from the province of East Bengal and covering the territory of the modern country of Bangladesh.
East Pakistanis were popularly known as "Pakistani Bengalis".
East Punjab (48%) became part of India, while West Punjab (52%) became part of Pakistan.
East of Sikkim lies the ancient Buddhist Kingdom of Bhutan.
Economic shifts like the green revolution and political developments also play crucial roles.
Economists in East Pakistan argued a "Two Economies Theory" within Pakistan itself, which was founded on the Two-Nation Theory with India.
Efforts in the 1950s to suppress these facts to protect Lacedelli and Compagnoni's reputations as Italian national heroes were later brought to light.
Efforts leading to centralising the economy were met with great resistance in West Pakistan when the elite monopolist and the business community angrily refused to adhere to his policies.
El Niño is a warm ocean current originating along the coast of Peru that replaces the usual cold Humboldt Current.
Electrical energy in Pakistan is generated by various corporations and distributed evenly among the four provinces by the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA).
Electricity was previously unavailable due to high cost of establishing power lines in the difficult-to-access area.
Energy GHG is mostly carbon dioxide: in 2019 burning fossil gas, coal and oil each emitted around 80 million tonnes.
English is co-official and also used in education, while Arabic is used for religious purposes.
Ephemeral herbs also appear seasonally and shed their seeds before the arrival of summer when climatic conditions become more unfavourable throughout the desert.
Erosion resulted in the formation of three layers of planation surfaces during the post-Mesozoic (66 to 2.6 mya), and early Pleistocene (2.6 mya to 11,000 years ago) periods.
Erratic rainfall patterns, frequent droughts and shifting sand dunes result in serious losses to farmers and have contributed to the widespread poverty in the area.
Essentially, the longer the higher grade rocks were spatially interacting with the thrust, the farther they were transported.
Established in 1947, the armed forces of Pakistan wielded significant influence over national politics.
Ethnic groups of lower Sindh can be found in the delta region: Mallaah, Mohano, Soomro, Samma and Jat.
Etymologists note that پاک pāk, is 'pure' in Persian and Pashto and the Persian suffix ـستان -stan means 'land' or 'place of'.
European explorers first visited in the early 19th century, followed by British surveyors starting in 1856.
Even at high elevations, annual rainfall is less than 400 millimetres (16 in) and in some places as little as 200 millimetres (8 in).
Even post-1947 partition, the Muslims from India kept migrating to Pakistan, especially Karachi and Sindh province.
Even prior to the partition of India in August 1947, India had developed projects on the river Ravi and Beas River system.
Even the option of supplying material through the Iranian far southeastern port of Chabahar was considered.
Even while the Punjab and North-West Frontier Province were ruled by parties hostile to the Muslim League, Sindh remained loyal to Jinnah.
Even with this, the nation's urbanisation rate remains one of the lowest in the world, and in 2017, over 130 million Pakistanis (making up nearly 65% of the population) lived in rural areas.
Evenings are cool; the daily variation in temperature may be as much as 11 °C to 17 °C.
Eventually it also reduced the water supply enough to cause the civilisation's demise and to disperse its population to the east.
Eventually, a Lieutenant Governorship was formed in Lahore as a direct representative of the Crown.
Eventually, due to panic the government restored the mosque to Muslims.
Eventually, it reaches the Bhakra gorge, where the Bhakra/Govind Sagar gravity-dam has been constructed.
Eventually, the British brought telegraph lines to the town.
Eventually, the Zhangzhung were conquered by the Tibetan Empire.
Everest Chomolangma), among the highest erosion rates at 2–12 mm/yr, the source of some of the greatest rivers and the highest concentration of glaciers outside of the polar regions.
Evidence of wildlife can be seen on the trek, including Ibex and the Markhor mountain goat.
Evidence suggests Indus Valley Civilisation also flourished here.
Except for Admiral Shariff who continued to keep pressure on the Indian Navy until the end of the conflict.
Except in a legal sense, Azad Kashmir has been fully integrated into Pakistan.
Excessive extraction creates deep pits and alters the riverbed, leading to accelerated bank erosion and the destruction of vital aquatic habitats, impacting fish species like trout.
Excessive precipitation due to western disturbances can cause crop damage, landslides, floods and avalanches.
Exhausted, he dozed occasionally but managed to maintain his balance.
Experts expect 20% of the population to move to major cities; current migration patterns included 700,000 people a year moving from rural to urban environments.
Explorations in the 1910s and 1920s established most of the geography of the region.
Extensive deforestation and human interference in the ecology of the Shivalik Hills has led to a marked deterioration in vegetation and growing conditions.
Extensive remains of a cemetery and other settlements are on the slopes below the fort.
Extratropical storms are a global phenomena with moisture usually carried in the upper atmosphere, unlike their tropical counterparts where the moisture is carried in the lower atmosphere.
Extreme weather, such as cyclones or intense monsoons are likely to increase in Pakistan because of increased sea and atmospheric temperature.
Facilities such as schools and post offices were also provided by the TDA alongside the construction of peasant houses, huts, and cattle sheds.
Faisalabad is the 2nd most populous city and largest industrial hub in this region.
Faisalabad's clock tower and eight bazaars were designed to represent the Union Jack.
Famous among them was Mir Sayyid Ali Hamadani, who came through Kashmir while in the Gilgit region Islam entered in the same century through Turkic Tarkhan rulers.
Fatima Jinnah received strong support in East Pakistan during her failed bid to unseat Ayub Khan in the 1965 presidential election.
Fazlul Haque, also known as the Pakistan Resolution.
Fed by the Satpara Stream originating from the Deosai plains, the stream is the lake's only outlet.
Females are also more vulnerable to health conditions, particularly those related to maternity as the nearest hospital capable of treatment is generally great distances away.
Feral cats, originally introduced by fishermen to control the endemic rodent population, pose an increasing threat to wildlife breeding sites.
Feral or semi-feral animals especially domestic yaks can be seen roaming in the park.
Feroza Begum was a leading exponent of Bengali classical Nazrul geeti.
Fertile, green, mountainous valleys are characteristic of Azad Kashmir's geography, making it one of the most beautiful regions on the subcontinent.
Festivals and government initiatives aim to promote Pakistan's cultural heritage.
Few centuries ago, Sutlej river was merging with the Ghaggar river to discharge in to the Arabian sea.
Few other livelihood opportunities aside from livestock farming are available in the region.
Field surveys of heavy damage to buildings and other structures in Balakot determined that the Modified Mercalli intensity exceeded X.
Fields in the Patala-Nammal system have an estimated total volume of 700 million barrels of oil equivalent and may prove economic in the coming decades.
Fighting ensued between the Indian and Pakistani armies, with the two areas of control more or less stabilised around what is now known as the "Line of Control".
Finally it installed two 500-watt wind turbines.
Finally, improper grazing practices in riparian areas, as well as upland areas, can also cause water quality degradation.
Finally, in April 1982, the project was approved for construction by the Government of India.
Finally, some people place great importance on jewelry.
Fire lines are lines of varying width built through the leaf litter of a forest floor down to the soil and minerals to prevent a spread of fire past the line.
First [M]uslim came to Hunza-Nagar Valley some 1000 years (At the time of Imam Islām Shāh 30th Imam Ismaili Muslims).
First observed by World War II pilots, they develop just below the tropopause over areas of steep pressure gradient on the surface.
First, Islam was introduced into the Southern Punjab in the opening decades of the eighth century.
Fish also played a major role in earlier cultures of the region, including the ancient Indus Valley Civilisation where depictions of fish were frequent.
Fishermen have been forced to fish near the border as a result of destruction of ecosystems elsewhere in the delta.
Fishery and fishing industry plays an important role in the national economy of Pakistan.
Five of the world's fourteen mountains taller than 8,000 metres (26,000 ft) referred as "eight-thousanders" are in Pakistan, four of which are near Concordia.
Flints, worked stones, and bone tools used by the inhabitants were found by archaeologists, but no ceramics were yet used.
Floral surveys were carried out in the Shyok River catchment and from Panamik to Turtuk village by Chandra Prakash Kala during 1999 and 2000.
Flowing westward, it is hemmed by the Pir Panjal and Dhauladhar ranges, forming a triangular zone.
Following Alexander the Great's invasion in the 4th century BCE, Chandragupta Maurya allied with Punjabi republics to establish the Maurya Empire.
Following Timur's 1398 Sack of Delhi, he appointed Khizr Khan as deputy of Multan (Punjab).
Following Timur's 1398 sack of Delhi, he appointed Khizr Khan as deputy of Multan (Punjab).
Following a 2012 attack on activist Malala Yousafzai by the Taliban, she became the youngest Nobel laureate for her education advocacy.
Following a century of Mauryan rule which ended by 180 BC, the region came under the Indo-Greeks, followed by the Indo Scythians, who ruled with their capital at Minnagara.
Following are the main factors that influence the weather over Pakistan.
Following collapse of Mauryan rule, Swat came under control of the Greco-Bactrians, then the Scythians of the Central Asian Steppe.
Following is a list for the highest peaks of the Karakoram.
Following is a list showing each district ordered by alphabetical order.
Following the 1971 war with India, Pakistan hastily developed atomic weapons to deter foreign intervention and entered the atomic age.
Following the Achaemenid conquest of the Indus Valley, the region was incorporated as the satrapy of Gandāra.
Following the Muslim conquests in the Indian subcontinent at the beginning of the 8th century, Arab armies of the Umayyad Caliphate penetrated South Asia, introducing Islam into the Punjab.
Following the Sikh victory at the Battle of Nowshera, Ranjit Singh re-captured Peshawar.
Following the Supreme Court decision, the government took several steps to devolve power to the local level.
Following the collapse of Buddhism in Swat following the Alchon Hun invasion, Swat was ruled by the Hindu Shahi dynasty beginning in the 8th century, who made their capital at Udigram in lower Swat.
Following the death of Muhammad of Ghor in 1206 by Punjabi assassins near the Jhelum river, the Ghurid state fragmented and was replaced in northern India by the Delhi Sultanate.
Following the death of the most famous Indo-Greek king, Menander I around 140 BCE, the region was overrun by the Indo-Scythians, and then the Persian Parthian Empire around 50 CE.
Following the decline of the Indus Valley civilisation, semi-nomadic Indo-European Aryans migrated into the Indian subcontinent around 2000 BCE, perhaps by way of the Khyber Pass.
Following the disintegration of the Mughal Empire, the shrine's Dīwān was able to forge a political independent state centered on Pakpattan.
Following the partition of India in 1947, the Khyber Pass became part of Pakistan.
Following the partition of India in August 1947, a dispute arose between India and Pakistan on sharing of the waters of the Indus River Basin.
Following the reorganisation of the state of Punjab in 1966, Haryana State was created.
Football is the most popular sport among the people of Quetta.
Football, cricket, and volleyball are very popular in Azad Kashmir.
For a period the Sammas were therefore subject to Delhi again.
For clarity, lower peaks with labels overlapping higher peaks are left out of the main image.
For example, a bark extract from an Abies pindrow tree is used to treat coughs and bronchitis.
For example, a fault separates the K2 gneiss of the east face of K2 from limestones and slates comprising nearby Skyang Kangri.
For example, between 1998 and 2018 Pakistan reported more than 150 extreme weather events.
For example, glacial lakes have been forming rapidly on the surface of debris-covered glaciers in the Bhutan Himalaya during the last few decades.
For example, in 1936, a British Indian court ruled against the marriage of a Hindu girl allegedly converted to Islam in Bannu, after the girl's family filed a case of abduction and forced conversion.
For example, in the Neelam Valley, there is a higher proportion of Urdu loanwords, while the variety spoken across the Line of Control has retained more traditional Hindko words.
For example, the strong El niño of 1997 did not cause drought in India.
For his role, General Tikka Khan gained the title of "Butcher of Bengal".
For instance, Saudi Arabia contributed a $133 million aid package, including emergency supplies and medical teams, and institutionalized its support through SPAPEV.
For most of its climbing history, K2 was not usually climbed with supplemental oxygen.
For most of the history of the North-West Frontier Province (NWFP), there were efforts to change its name.
For over half the year (between September and May), Deosai is snow-bound and cut off from rest of Astore and Baltistan in winters.
For the Hindus, the Himalayas are personified as Himavat, the king of all mountains and the father of the goddess Parvati.
For the most part of the war, the IAF enjoyed complete dominance in the skies over East Pakistan.
For this purpose, the treaty envisaged the creation of the Permanent Indus Commission, with a commissioner appointed by each country.
For this, India was told to participate 60%, whereas Pakistan, 40%.
For years, Pakistan has blocked an international treaty to limit fissile material, arguing that its stockpile does not meet its long-term needs.
Forests have also been planted in some areas like Thal Desert to avoid soil erosion and further desertification.
Formerly an independent Kingdom, it lies on the main route from India to Lhasa, Tibet, which passes over the Nathu La pass into Tibet.
Four deaths were reported in Afghanistan, including a young girl who died in Jalalabad after a wall collapsed on her.
Four districts – Umerkot, Tharparkar, Mirpurkhas, and Sanghar – have over half of Pakistan's Hindus.
Four months later, Ghiyasuddin Tughlaq sent large army reinforcements for his son asking him to attempt plundering Arangal and Tilang again.
Four other members of the team achieved the summit the next day.
Four periods define Pakistani architecture: pre-Islamic, Islamic, colonial, and post-colonial.
Frequent intertribal wars in the post-Vedic period stimulated the growth of larger groupings ruled by chieftains and kings, who ruled local kingdoms known as Mahajanapadas.
Frequent intertribal wars stimulated the growth of larger groupings ruled by chieftains and kings, who ruled local kingdoms known as Mahajanapadas.
Frequently, Indus River is prone to moderate to severe flooding.
From 1500 BCE, Indo-Iranian peoples started to enter in the region from Central Asia after having passed the Khyber Pass.
From 1591 to 1592, the Mughal empire waged a campaign to bring lower Sindh under imperial rule, resulting in the delta coming under the province of Multan and ruled by Mirza Ghazi Beg.
From 1947 to 1956, Pakistan was a monarchy within the Commonwealth of Nations, and had two monarchs before it became a republic.
From 1977 to 1988, President Zia's corporatisation and economic Islamisation initiatives led to Pakistan becoming one of the fastest-growing economies in South Asia.
From June to August, the island remains uninhabited due to the fishing off-season, rough seas, and high tides.
From March to July 2023, floods caused by monsoon rains returned to Pakistan after nine months.
From Sibi, the line runs south-west, skirting the hills to Rindli and originally followed the course of the Bolan stream to its head on the plateau.
From a historical perspective, the name Hindu Kush (also written as Hindukush) is relatively recent.
From his mountainous Afghani base, he systematically raided and plundered kingdoms in north India from east of the Indus river to west of Yamuna river seventeen times between 997 and 1030.
From north to south, the mountains cover more than eight degrees of latitude, spanning temperate to subtropical zones.
From south to north the Himalaya (Himalaya orogen) is divided into 4 parallel tectonostratigraphic zones and 5 thrust faults which extend across the length of Himalaya orogen.
From that time on, the Cimmerian Superterranes drifted away from Gondwana towards the north.
From the Arabian Sea coast, they rise to nearly 8,300 ft (2,500 m) in the north.
From the former, the present ruling family of Nager is descended.
From the main Astore town, it takes about four hours' jeep travel through a semi-metal road to reach Chilum, the last residential area adjacent to the plains.
From the south, the Chaman fault starts at the triple junction where the Arabian plate, the Eurasian plate and the Indo-Australian plate meet, which is just off the Makran Coast of Pakistan.
From then until the 1990s, Gilgit-Baltistan was governed through the colonial-era Frontier Crimes Regulations, which were originally created for the northwest tribal regions.
From there, it flows through the plains of Pakistan's Punjab, forming the boundary between the Jech and Sindh Sagar Doabs.
From there, the line will be extended to Khushka, Turkmenistan.
From there, the river courses gently for 160 km through the wider Yousufzai Plains of the lower Swat Valley until Chakdara.
From this wool they knit beautiful carpets, rugs, and other woolen items.
Further evidence in the Chachnama makes perfectly clear that many areas of Makran had a largely Buddhist population.
Further north in the Neelam Valley the dialect, locally also known as Parmi, can more unambiguously be subsumed under Hindko.
Further recommendations of the national parks of the Indomalayan realm were highlighted in the IUCN review of 1986.
Further west, the border with India follows the Sarda River and provides a trade route into China, where on the Tibetan plateau lies the high peak of Gurla Mandhata.
Further, the two poles of the IOD – the eastern pole (around Indonesia) and the western pole (off the African coast) — independently and cumulatively affect the quantity of monsoon rains.
Furthermore, Beijing declined Islamabad's proposal to construct a 500-kilovolt transmission line from Gwadar port to the national electricity grid in Karachi.
Furthermore, one of the paintings found within the cave is of the Hindu god Shiva.
Furthermore, the Swat schools infrastructure scored 90.26 which ranked it on number 31 out of 155.
Furthermore, these resources are depleting at a rate of one percent, which is having a significant impact on the well-being of the Pakistani population.
Future changes in the monsoon will depend on a competition between land and ocean—on which is warming faster than the other.
Future plans call for dredging of the harbour to a depth of 20 meters to allow for docking of larger vessels.
Future projections for Pakistan are that major crop yields such as of wheat and rice are expected to decrease significantly.
GSP purchasing power parity (PPP) of Gilgit-Baltistan was $10 billion and GSP (PPP) per capita of GB was $6,028.
Gandhara artifacts remaining from the demolitions were thereafter plundered by thieves and smugglers.
Gandhara was also a central location for the spread of Buddhism to Central Asia and East Asia.
Gandhara was an ancient Indo-Aryan civilization centered in the present-day province.
Gandhara was frequently mentioned in Vedic epics, including Rig Veda, Ramayana and Mahabharata.
Gargas are made with numerous patterns and color, having complicated embroidery, mirror, and patchwork.
Gasherbrum I is part of the Gasherbrum Massif, located in the Karakoram region of the Himalaya.
Gasherbrum I was designated K5 (meaning the 5th peak of the Karakoram) by T.G.
Gemstones Corporation of Pakistan looks after the interests of stake holders in gemstone mining and polishing as an official entity.
General Ayub Khan justified his actions after appearing on national radio declaring that: "the armed forces and the people demanded a clean break with the past...".
General Charles Napier is said to have reported victory to the Governor General with a one-word telegram, namely "Peccavi" – or "I have sinned" (Latin).
General Khan faced an international reaction against Pakistan, and therefore, General Tikka was removed as Commander of the Eastern front.
General Tikka Khan led the massive violent and massacre campaigns in the region.
General Yahya Khan surrendered powers to Nurul Amin of the Pakistan Muslim League, the first and last vice-president and prime minister of Pakistan.
General Yaqub mobilised the entire major forces in East Pakistan.
General Yaqub temporarily assumed the control of the province, he was also made the corps-commander of Eastern Corps.
General Zia-ul-Haq, after seizing power, committed to establishing an Islamic state and enforcing sharia law.
Geographically, it covers a total area of 13,297 km2 (5,134 sq mi) and has a total population of over 4.045 million as per the 2017 national census.
Geographically, it covers the Kurram Valley in northwestern Pakistan.
Geographically, the Hunza Valley is divided into three parts: Upper Hunza (Gojal), Central Hunza, and Lower Hunza (Shinaki).
Geographically, the Kurram District is a connecting bridge as it interfaces with three provinces of Afghanistan: Khost, Paktia and Nangarhar (Tora bora).
Geologically, Cholistan is divided into the Greater Cholistan and Lesser Cholistan, which are roughly divided by the dry bed of the ancient Hakra River.
Geologically, Pakistan lies at the interaction of the Indian and Eurasian tectonic plates within the Indus–Tsangpo Suture Zone, a region of high seismic activity.
Geologically, the range is rooted in the formation of the subcontinent from a region of Gondwana that drifted away from East Africa about 160 million years ago, around the Middle Jurassic period.
Geologists Wolfgang Frisch, Martin Meschede, and Ronand Blakey write, "India rapidly marched northward towards Asia with a velocity of ca.
Geologists believe that tectonic activity created elevation changes which redirected the flow of Sutlej from the southeast to the southwest.
Geologists have estimated the rate of uplift of these rocks to be 7 millimetres (0.28 in) per year, or 7 kilometres (4.3 mi) per million years.
Germany, between 2006 and 2014, has also donated $38 million towards the AJK Health Infrastructure Programme.
Ghaffar Khan suggested Pakhtunkhwa, but Zia-ul-Haq asked Ghaffar Khan to suggest an alternative.
Ghanche has a Noorbakhshi population, and Ghizar has an Ismaili majority.
Ghiyasuddin Tughlaq succeeded in this campaign.
Ghiyath al-Din Tughlaq, the former governor of Multan and Dipalpur founded the Tughlaq dynasty in Delhi and ruled the subcontinent region.
Gilgit Baltistan is home to some of the highest peaks in the world, including K2 the second highest peak in the world.
Gilgit Baltistan is not only known for its mountains — it is also visited for its landmarks, culture, history and people.
Gilgit Baltistan is the capital of tourism in Pakistan.
Gilgit Baltistan's landscape includes mountains, lakes, glaciers and valleys.
Gilgit and Skardu are the two main hubs for expeditions to those mountains.
Gilgit has not received a gas pipeline infrastructure since Pakistan's independence, unlike other cities.
Gilgit is the largest by area and population both for Gilgit-Baltistan.
Gilgit's population did not favour the State's accession to India.
Gilgit-Baltistan covers an area of over 72,496 km2 (27,911 sq mi) and is highly mountainous.
Gilgit-Baltistan is a multilingual region where Urdu being a national and official language serves as the lingua franca for inter ethnic communications.
Gilgit-Baltistan is home to all five of Pakistan's "eight-thousanders" and to more than fifty peaks above 7,000 metres (23,000 ft).
Gilgit-Baltistan is home to diversified cultures, ethnic groups, languages and backgrounds.
Gilgit-Baltistan is home to more than 20 peaks of over 6,100 metres (20,000 ft), including K-2 the second highest mountain on Earth.
Gilgit-Baltistan thus gained a de facto province-like status without constitutionally becoming part of Pakistan.
Gilgit-Baltistan was ruled by many local rulers, among whom the Maqpon dynasty of Skardu and the Rajas of Hunza were famous.
Gilgit-Baltistan, along with the western districts that came to be called Azad Kashmir, have remained under the control of Pakistan ever since.
Gilkar travelled to Srinagar and was arrested by the maharaja's government.
Glacial retreat in parts of the Himalayas poses risks of meltwater flooding.
Glacier melt is projected to accelerate regional river flows until the amount of meltwater peaks around 2060, going into an irreversible decline afterwards.
Glacier retreat had been followed by an increase in the number of glacial lakes, some of which may be prone to dangerous floods.
Going downstream these are soon joined by the golden mahseer Tor putitora (alternatively T. macrolepis, although it often is regarded as a synonym of T. putitora) and Schistura loaches.
Going north, the speech forms gradually change into Hindko.
Going west from Dhaulagiri, Western Nepal is somewhat remote and lacks major high mountains, but is home to Rara Lake, the largest lake in Nepal.
Gold and silver bangles are also a product of Cholistan.
Gomal River's headwaters are located in the northern part of Paktika Province, southeast of the city of Ghazni.
Gomal University in Dera Ismail Khan and Gomal District in Afghanistan's Paktika province are named after the river.
Gondwana fragmented as these continents drifted apart at different velocities; a process which led to the opening of the Indian Ocean.
Gosaun was appointed as administrator (Thanadar) of Baltistan and till 1860, the entire region of Gilgit-Baltistan was under the Sikhs and then the Dogras.
Government initiatives, including computer literacy since 1995, aim to eradicate illiteracy, targeting 100% enrollment among primary school-age children and an ~86% literacy rate by 2015.
Government of Pakistan start new campaign with Clean and Green Pakistan to overcome environmental issues.
Government projections, highlight considerable increase in the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events, coupled with erratic monsoon rains causing frequent and intense floods and droughts.
Government schemes such as 'Ghar Ghar Rozgar and Karobar Mission' have brought enhanced employability in the private sector.
Governor cottage, Shalozan House, Circuit House and Passport office are also located in cantonment area.
Gram (chickpea) is the most successfully cultivated crop in the region's arid conditions and the desert accounts for the bulk of chickpea production in Pakistan.
Grazing lands have diminished and the biodiversity of the area has also decreased.
Great Palola was subsequently captured by the Chinese army in 753 under military Governor Feng Changqing.
Great Rann of Kutch lies east of Indus delta.
Greater Cholistan is a mostly sandy area in the south and west part of the desert up to the border with India, and covers an area of 13,600 km2 (5,300 sq mi).
Greek historians named it as Aarabes, its eastern side was called Arabti and the area of western side of its bank as Orieti.
Greg Mortenson details the Karakoram, and specifically K2 and the Balti, extensively in his book Three Cups of Tea, about his quest to build schools for children in the region.
Gujari is most closely related to the Rajasthani languages (particularly Mewati), although it also shares features with Punjabi.
Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism, was born in the town of Nankana Sahib.
Gwadar Port (Urdu: گوادر بندرگاہ [ˈɡwaːdəɾ ˈbəndəɾɡaː]) is a deep-sea port situated on the Arabian Sea at Gwadar in Pakistan's Balochistan province.
Gwadar Port has significant advantages compared to other ports in the region due to its depth, natural breakwater, and desert climate with little seasonal variation.
Gwadar Port is owned by the government-owned Gwadar Port Authority and operated by China Overseas Port Holding Company (COPHC), a state-run Chinese firm.
Gwadar Port is situated on the shores of the Arabian Sea in the city of Gwadar, located in the Pakistani province of Balochistan.
Gwadar Port was featured on the back of the five Pakistani Rupee currency note, which is no longer in circulation.
Gwadar faced protests and information censorship for many months due to sit-ins led by Maulana Hidayat-ur-Rehman.
Gwadar formally became a part of Pakistan on 8 December 1958, ending 174 years of Omani rule.
Gwalerai, a village located near Mingora, is one of those few villages which produces 18 varieties of apples due to its agriculturally favourable temperate climate in summer.
Günther was killed in an avalanche on the Diamir Face, where his remains were found in 2005.
Gāndhārī, an Indo-Aryan language written in Kharosthi script, acted as lingua franca of the region.
Haidar Khan from Shigar, one of the leaders of the uprising against the Dogras, was imprisoned and died in captivity.
Haleji Lake (Urdu: ہالیجی جھیل) is a perennial freshwater lake in Thatta District of Sindh Province, Pakistan.
Haleji Lake is a wintering site for native and migratory waterfowl such as cotton teal, Indian spot-billed duck, purple moorhen and pheasant-tailed jacana.
Haleji Lake was a saline lagoon until the 1930s and was converted into a reservoir to provide additional water to Karachi.
Half of the annual rainfall occurs in July and August, averaging about 255 millimeters in each of those two months.
Half of the annual rainfall occurs in July and August, averaging about 300 millimetres (11.81 in) in each of those two months.
Hammal Baloch lived during the 15th century and his father, Jiand was the ruler of Makran.
Hangul National Park contains six distinct ecosystems, as well as both desert and plains regions, making it unique among the national parks of Pakistan.
Hari Singh made a plea to India for assistance and signed the Instrument of Accession, making his state a part of India.
Hari Singh, the maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir, wanted his state to remain independent.
Harrer's and Aufschnaiter's escape and subsequent wanderings across the Tibetan Plateau became the subject of Harrer's book Seven Years in Tibet.
Having long been a prize kill for poachers and hunters, the bear now has a hope for survival in Deosai where its number has increased from only 19 in 1993, to 40 in 2005, and 78 in 2022.
Having secured concessions from the Sultan for the utilization of the region, the British assisted Muscat in maintaining control over Gwadar.
Hazara Motorway one more expressway under construction in KPK province.
He (alongside Abisares) had a hostile relationship with the Kingdom of Taxila which was ruled by his extended family.
He added, "Pakistan is both a Persian and Urdu word...
He also (1024 and 1025) raided the Pashtuns.
He also conquered Delhi for a brief period in 1431 but was driven out by Mubarak Shah.
He also laid siege to the Kangra Fort and forced Nagarkot to pay tribute.
He also proposed the name "Banglastan" for the Muslim areas of Bengal and "Osmanistan" for Hyderabad State, as well as a political federation between the three.
He also tried unsuccessfully to alleviate the food shortage in the country.
He argues that a thorough natural habitat assessment and regulation of fisheries is a solution to this growing environmental problem.
He arrived in the capital Delhi with his army.
He began a military campaign that rapidly brought both sides of the Hindu Kush range under his rule.
He captured Cuttack, desecrated the Jagannath Temple, Puri, and forced Raja Gajpati of Jajnagar in Orissa to pay tribute.
He ceded Kalhora, one of the Sindh territories of Sibi-Kachi, to the Khanate of Kalat.
He constructed a harbour at the city of Patala in Sindh.
He defeated the advancing Hoshang Shah Ghori, ruler of Malwa Sultanate and forced him to pay heavy tribute early in his reign.
He discusses the problem of sewage waste and solid waste affecting the coast including that of Gwadar.
He established the Kahuta Research Laboratories (KRL) in 1976, serving as both its senior scientist and the Director-General until his retirement in 2001.
He finally reached his high camp at 7:00 p.m. the next day, 40 hours after setting out.
He first established himself and his army in Kabul and the Hindu Kush region.
He further claimed that the "successive governments of Afghanistan only exploited the idea for their own political goals".
He got up and went to tell his dream to his father, asking him about the place and the fairy.
He gradually gained control of the lower Rachna doab, including the cities of Chiniot, Pindi Bhattian, Jhang and Mankera.
He had significant wealth which he had inherited from his forefathers.
He had visited the Tang court requesting military assistance against the Tibetans.
He has thousands of armed supporters from local tribes of Bangash, Watizai, and Daudzai.
He held Lahore, Dipalpur, Multan and Upper Sindh.
He himself appears to have been inclined towards the Shaivism sect of Hinduism.
He installed a civilian administration under Abdul Motaleb Malik on 31 August 1971, which proved to be ineffective.
He instituted Shariat judicial courts, and court benches, to adjudicate using Islamic doctrine.
He interviewed many old Sherpas, including Ang Tsering, the last man off Nanga Parbat alive in 1934.
He is also believed to be the biggest promotor and contributor towards the literacy success and overall well-being of the people of Hunza and the valley itself.
He is best known for his resistance against Portuguese incursions, particularly during the attacks on coastal towns like Pasni and Gawadar.
He is held responsible for killing hundreds of thousands of Bengali people in East Pakistan, mostly civilians and unarmed peoples.
He later claimed that "Pashtunistan was never a reality".
He launched and orchestrated the large-scale atomic bomb project in 1972.
He led expeditions against Bengal in 1353 and 1358.
He moved towards the Indus Valley river region in the Indian subcontinent in 327 BCE;_his armies built several towns in this region over the intervening two years.
He retracted each time, only extending Islamic rule into western Punjab.
He stayed for some time in the Hindu Kush region, particularly near Kabul.
He then captured Delhi on 28 May 1414 thereby establishing the Sayyid dynasty.
He then defeated the Nanda rulers in Pataliputra to capture the throne.
He therefore proposed that the park be reclassified, allowing grazing and commercial hunting, with the profits going to local residents.
He thoroughly examined the draft while consulting with his cabinet.
He thus helped bring Islamic rule to the northern plains of the Indian subcontinent.
He undertook military campaigns in Punjab and captured Chiniot and Shorkot from the Lodis.
He was a Khokhar chieftain who travelled to Samarkand and profited from the contacts he made with the Timurid society.
He was a close aide of the Timurid ruler Humayun and was succeeded by the Khanate of Kalat, which owed allegiance to the Mughal Empire.
He was captured and killed by Sher Shah Suri in 1546.
He was expelled from the city by the Muin tribes under Sarang Khan who occupied Multan in 1395, an Indian Muslim and the brother of Mallu Iqbal Khan, who was the de facto ruler of Delhi.
He was from the Chandravanshi Rajput clan and was from the bloodline of famous Indian Mahabharata Warrior Prince Arjun Dev Pandav.
He was influential in seeding the Delhi Sultanate, shifting the base of his Sultanate from south of the Hindu Kush range and Ghazni towards the Yamuna River and Delhi.
He was joined by reinforcements from Kufa under the command of Shahab ibn Makharaq, and by Abdullah ibn Utban, the commander of a campaign in Kerman.
He was later released in the 1969 uprising in East Pakistan.
He was referred to in Chinese records as the king of Great Palola; however, it is unknown if Baltistan was under Gilgit rule at the time.
He was relieved as naval chief and received an extension from the government.
He was reportedly a trader who used to take goods to Arabia.
He was subsequently arrested several times for his opposition to the strong centralized rule.
Healthcare facilities were inundated, and makeshift field hospitals were quickly established.
Heat records were broken in Multan in June 1993, when the mercury was reported to have risen to 54 °C.
Heavy rain arrives on the southwest monsoon in June and persists until September.
Heavy rains had left the river basin along with the Lake Manchar, Lake Hemal and Kalri Lake (all in modern-day Pakistan) inundated.
Heinrich Harrer, an expert mountaineer, was a member of the SS Alpine unit.
Helicopters conducted aerial reconnaissance and delivered essential supplies to remote areas while infantry units engaged in search and rescue operations.
Hence the Bolan route was upgraded in 1895 to handle all traffic with the Harnai route kept for local traffic.
Hence this region is prone to violent earthquakes, as the two tectonic plates collide.
Hence, in order to sustain economic growth there is a high demand on already scarce natural resources.
Hence, measures to check metal re-mobilization from sediments into the river flows need attention.
Hence, the further hearings of the Tribunal and its final report are now enjoined on the outcome of the Supreme Court hearing of the Presidential reference.
Henceforth the river was named śatadra (or śatadru) which means the river of a hundred courses.
Her consort Shiva struck with his spear near the abode of Nila, (Verinag spring).
Here is the list of medical colleges in Balochistan, Pakistan.
Here, the river turns into many marshes, streams and creeks and meets the sea at shallow levels.
High levels of pollutants in the river have led to the deaths of endangered Indus River dolphin.
High-velocity winds blow soil from the desert, depositing some of it on neighboring fertile lands, and causing sand dunes within the desert to shift.
Higher up, most of the Himalayas have a subtropical highland climate (Cwb).
Hiking treks include Ondra Poygah Gulmit and Leopard Trek Shiskhat.
Himavat (Sanskrit: हिमवत्) or Himavan Himavān (Sanskrit: हिमवान्) is a Hindu deity who is the personification of the Himalayan Mountain Range.
Hindko is primarily spoken in the Hazara division in the northeast, and Saraiki-speakers are found in Dera Ismail Khan district in the far south of the province.
Hindu Kush is generally translated as "Killer of Hindus" or "Hindu-Killer" in the popular literature.
Hinduism is the second-largest religion, followed by 2.17% of the population according to the census in 2023.
Hindus form 249,716 people, comprising approximately 0.20 per cent of the population.
Hingol National Park contains a variety of topographical features and habitats, varying from arid subtropical forest in the north to arid montane in the west.
Hingol National Park is a natural sanctuary for endangered wildlife in Pakistan.
Hingol National Park is known to support at least 35 species of mammals, 65 species of amphibians and reptiles, and 185 species of birds.
Hingol mud volcanoes ranging in height from 800 to 1500 feet are abundant in Hangul National Park, mostly in the Mid-Hor area.
Hingol was declared a national park in 1988.
His descendants reigned till 1179, when Muhammad of Ghor took Peshawar, making it part of his expanding Ghurid Empire.
His descent was slowed when he lost a crampon.
His distant campaigns were expensive, although each raid and attack on non-Muslim kingdoms brought new looted wealth and ransom payments from captured people.
His empire survived him in a fragmented manner until the last independent Greek king, Strato II, disappeared around 10 CE.
His father told him that he can't meet the fairy as she isn't human, unlike him.
His father's name was Rajab (the younger brother of Ghazi Malik) who had the title Sipahsalar.
His kingdom spanned between rivers Hydaspes (Jhelum) and Acesines (Chenab); Strabo had held the territory to contain almost 300 cities.
His mother Naila was a Punjabi Bhatti princess (daughter of Rana Mal) from Dipalpur and Abohar according to the historian William Crooke.
His son Kadphises II conquered North-Western India, which he governed through his generals.
His son Kamal Khan Gakhar later assumed the throne of Pothohar Plateau by defeating his uncle Adam Khan in battle with help of the Mughal Emperor Jalaluddin Akbar.
Historically the economy of Azad Kashmir has been agricultural which meant that land was the main source or mean of production.
Historically, Lahore has been the capital of the Punjab region and continues to be the most populous city in the region, with a population of 11 million for the city proper.
Historically, Pakistan was part of the wealthiest region in the first millennium CE, but lost ground to regions like China and Western Europe by the 18th century.
Historically, the 1909 The Imperial Gazetteer of India gave it as "just over 1,800 miles".
Historically, the Chenab River used to flow east of Multan prior to 1245, after which the Beas River occupied its old bed that went by Dipalpur.
Historically, the Indus was important to many cultures.
Historically, the province perceived to be a stronghold of the Awami National Party (ANP); a pro-Russian, by procommunist, left-wing and nationalist party.
Hiuen Tsang considered the script which was in use in Makran to be "much the same as India", but the spoken language "differed a little from that of India".
Hog deer and wild bear occur, particularly in the central inundation belt.
Hover the mouse click or tap on the following images to see their captions.
However Yanagisawa fell and died on the descent.
However coal-fired power stations which have already been given permits are expected to be constructed.
However it is ironic that what the country depends on for its growth is also what threatens the future welfare and success of the country.
However the Indus Delta saw an increase in number of mangroves after preservation and plantation initiatives.
However tornadoes mostly occur during spring season that is March and April usually when a Western Disturbance starts effecting the northern parts of the country.
However, Beijing displayed limited interest in this request.
However, British control of parts of the region was routinely challenged by Wazir tribesmen in Waziristan and other Pashtun tribes, who resisted any foreign occupation until Pakistan was created.
However, East Pakistan did nonetheless benefit from industrialisation and development, which was discerned by the Kaptai Dam in the Chittagong Hill Tracts for instance.
However, Eudemus, who had served as Alexander's satrap in the Punjab region, treacherously killed Porus.
However, General Niazi proved to be a failure and ineffective ruler.
However, Karachi-based K-Electric and Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) generate much of the electricity used in Pakistan and collect revenue nationwide.
However, Major Brown had already telegraphed Khan Abdul Qayyum Khan asking Pakistan to take over.
However, Pakistan's global export share is declining, accounting for just 0.13% in 2007 according to the World Trade Organization.
However, President Ayub Khan did implement significant industrialisation in East Pakistan.
However, Sarwali Peak (6326 m) in Neelum Valley is the highest peak in the state.
However, Sarwali peak in the Neelum Valley is the highest peak in the state.
However, a part of the forest surrounding the temple was considered sacred and declared a reserved area.
However, a rainy monsoon is not necessarily a normal monsoon – that is, one that performs close to statistical averages calculated over a long period.
However, a recent study by Pakistan's Ministry of Climate Change and Italian research organization EvK2CNR, indicated that there are more than 13,000 glaciers in the country.
However, after the East Pakistani Awami League emerged victorious over the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), Yahya Khan and the military refused to transfer power.
However, as of 2015 leaders of Azad Kashmir were opposed to any step towards integrating Gilgit-Baltistan into Pakistan.
However, by 1397 the flow of the Chenab River shifted so that it flows west of Multan.
However, by 755, due to the An Lushan rebellion, the Tang Chinese forces withdrew and were no longer able to exert influence in Central Asia or in the regions around Gilgit-Baltistan.
However, development of the region with the canal project, settlement of people and reclamation of land for agricultural usages has also changed the ecology of the area.
However, due to a nationalist awakening in the Arab world at that time, there was little interest in Pakistan's Pan-Islamic aspirations.
However, during the meeting, with no high officers willing to assume the command of East Pakistan, Lieutenant-General Amir Abdullah Khan Niazi volunteered for the command of East Pakistan.
However, even during the most humid periods the high altitudes typically allow for some relief from the heat overnight.
However, faced with growing influence of the Umayyad Caliphate and then the Abbasid Caliphate to the west, the Tibetans were forced to ally themselves with the Islamic caliphates.
However, fearing East Pakistani separatism, Bhutto demanded Mujib to form a coalition government.
However, following the 2009 drought in India (worst since 1972), The department decided in 2010 that it needed to develop an "indigenous model" to further improve its prediction capabilities.
However, for the election to the reserved seats for women in Zila Council proportionately divided among tehsils or towns shall be all members of the union councils in a tehsil or town.
However, foreign lenders provide most environmental protection funds, and only 0.04 percent of the government's development budget goes to environmental protection.
However, in 2019, the screening of Bollywood movies faced an indefinite ban.
However, in November, the rainfall is more in the valleys and on the lower peaks.
However, in the seventh NFC awards, Punjab province and the Federal contributed to increase Baluchistan share more than its entitled population-based share.
However, it is notable that majority of the Indus script seals and inscribed objects discovered were found at sites along the Indus river.
However, it was later discovered that, just like ENSO in the Pacific Ocean, a similar seesaw ocean-atmosphere system in the Indian Ocean was also in play.
However, many meteorologists argue that the monsoon is not a local phenomenon as explained by the traditional theory, but a general weather phenomenon along the entire tropical zone of Earth.
However, more soldiers have died from the harsh weather conditions in the region than from combat.
However, most are jailed for a year, and their boats are sold at an auction.
However, no withdrawal was ever carried out.
However, one study did not observe any liquefaction.
However, only 2.2% were graduates, compared to the average of 2.9% for Pakistan.
However, rising salinity destroyed the local agriculture and the port was lost to the encroaching Arabian sea by 2006.
However, since 2006 the Pakistan government has taken steps to restore tourism in the Kaghan Valley, including rebuilding and new tourism facilities and infrastructure.
However, since 2006 the Pakistan government has taken steps to restore tourism in the Kaghan Valley, including restoring as well as building new tourism facilities and infrastructure.
However, some Pakistani Hindus felt marginalized, leading to emigration to India.
However, some authors suggest the collision between India and Eurasia occurred much later, around 35 million years ago.
However, southern borne hot winds blowing with high velocity can see these temperatures rise to over 45 °C.
However, states André Wink, inscriptional evidence suggests that the Kabul area near Hindu Kush had an early presence of Islam.
However, the 2004 season saw a great increase in the use of oxygen: 28 of 47 summiteers used oxygen in that year.
However, the Chach Nama states that the raiders of Debal were defeated and its governor killed the leader of the raids.
However, the Christian community has been struggling to get residential status and property rights in AJK.
However, the Fokker F27 was retired after a crash at Multan in 2006.
However, the PML (N) parliamentary party of NWFP rejected the ANP demand but called for Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif to suggest another "non-controversial" name.
However, the Sutlej may have already been captured by the Indus thousands of years earlier.
However, the agriculture sector still contributes 17–20% of GDP and is the largest employer in the country, with about 60% of Indians dependent on it for employment and livelihood.
However, the cost of moving oil overland is far greater.
However, the following is a list of the most important subranges, following Jerzy Wala.
However, the following year, the party passed an "Azad Kashmir resolution" demanding that the maharaja institute a constituent assembly elected on an extended franchise.
However, the huge landmass of the Himalayas restricts the low-pressure zone onto the Himalayas themselves.
However, the humidity is extremely low during these hot spells and, as a result, the summer climate is less torrid than in the rest of the Indian subcontinent.
However, the lack of adequate facilities, supplies and skilled personnel significantly hampered medical response efforts.
However, the legality of this agreement was challenged by Punjab.
However, the longer the prince recollected his dream, the more he was overwhelmed with love for the fairy.
However, the project has faced multiple challenges.
However, the proposal has met with obstacles and has been referred to the Supreme Court of India.
However, the proposed ocean basin was not constrained by paleomagnetic data from the key time interval of ~120 Mya to ~60 Mya.
However, the records do not consistently disambiguate the two.
However, the report was contested as Rajasthan also moved an application "seeking explanation and guidance regarding the report of this Ravi Beas waters Tribunal, 1987".
However, the route suffered regularly from floods and land slips.
However, the study also concluded that in Pakistan, "the traffic noise levels limit as laid down by National Environment Quality standards, Environmental Protection Agency is 85 dB".
However, the ultimate outcome of the corridor's success is intricately tied to Pakistan's internal circumstances.
However, the valley has large terraces, which are very fertile and known as "the garden of Chamba".
However, there are probably fewer Afghans living in Balochistan today as many refugees repatriated in 2013.
However, they are higher in feldspars, volcanic, metavolcanic and metabasite rock fragments and heavy minerals.
However, they lack direct command over the branches and serve as intermediaries, ensuring communication between the military and civilian leadership.
However, this government quickly fizzled out with the arrest of Anwar in Srinagar.
However, this pledge included a clause stating that no part of British India would be compelled to join the resulting dominion, which could be interpreted as support for an independent Muslim nation.
However, this was a decline from the peak of tourism in the 1970s driven by the popular Hippie trail.
However, whether or not their putative longevity is true, it is undoubtable that the Hunza people lead a healthy lifestyle along with a healthy diet.
Hub River (Urdu: دریائے حب) is located in Hub District, Balochistan, Pakistan.
Hundreds of people continued to live in tents long after the earthquake.
Hunted for its musk, it is now rare and endangered.
Hunza Valley was central in the network of trading routes connecting Central Asia to the subcontinent.
Hunza also houses several lakes in its vicinity including Attabad Lake, Borith Lake, Shimshal Lakes, Hassanabad Lake.
Hunza was an independent principality for more than 900 years and then in the early 1800s, Hunza played a vital role in the British "Great Game".
Husseyn Langah I (reigned 1456–1502) was the second ruler of Langah Sultanate.
Hydrangea hirta is an example of floral species that can be found in this area.
Hydrological power is a renewable resource which benefits Pakistan a lot.
I don't know the answer to that question," he says.
I shall not tolerate this nonsense for one instance... And when the Indian Army starts invading you there will be no use screaming to Pakistan for help, because you won't get it."...
IOD develops in the equatorial region of the Indian Ocean from April to May and peaks in October.
Ibex is found in all steep mountain ranges and is numerous in the Hinglaj and Rodani Kacho Mountain areas.
If the shift is delayed, so is the southwest monsoon.
If this assessment is correct, a Buddhist monastery was established here around 500.
Ignoring protests from Pakistan, India maintains that it does not need anyone's approval to send trekkers to Siachen, in what it says is essentially its own territory.
Illness is not the only danger to the communities as temperatures sky rocket.
Immediately after the earthquake, local residents and organizations responded to emergency needs.
Immediately prior to 1947 Partition of India, the British held a referendum in the NWFP to allow voters to choose between joining India or Pakistan.
Immigration, both domestic and international, significantly fuels urban growth.
Improved road access has increased tourism, but this growth has also created severe environmental pressures.
Improvements at the port are intended to allow Indian goods to be exported to Iran, with the possibility of onward connections to Afghanistan and Central Asia.
In 1017, the Iranian Islamic historian Al-Biruni was deported after a war that Mahmud of Ghazni won, to the northwest Indian subcontinent under Mahmud's rule.
In 1019, he recorded and described a solar eclipse in what is the modern era Laghman Province of Afghanistan through which Hindu Kush pass.
In 1333 AD, the Samma Dynasty ruled all of the delta, and established their capital first at Samu-i (on the south bank of Keenjhar Lake) and later at Thatta.
In 1398, Timur attacked the Punjab region.
In 1445, Sultan Qutbudin, chief of Langah (a Jat Zamindar tribe), established the Langah Sultanate in Multan after the fall of the Sayyid dynasty.
In 1445, Sultan Qutbudin, chief of Langah tribe, established the Langah Sultanate in Multan.
In 1543, Mughal emperor Humayun came to Quetta en route to Safavid Persia, leaving his son and future Mughal emperor Akbar here.
In 1591-1593, Akbar sent an army to conquer lower Sindh from the Tarkhan dynasty after defeating the last Tarkhan ruler, Mirza Jani Beg; Jani Beg and his son Mirza Ghazi Beg.
In 1709, the region was a part of Afghan Hotak dynasty and stayed a part until 1747 when Ahmed Shah Durrani conquered it and made it a part of Durrani Empire.
In 1739, the region, along with many others, was ceded to Nadir Shah.
In 1748, the Afghan king Ahmad Shah Durrani invaded India by using the Bolan Pass in addition to the traditional Khyber Pass route.
In 1749, the Mughal ruler was induced to cede Sindh, the Punjab region and the important trans Indus River to Ahmad Shah in order to save his capital from the Durrani attack.
In 1757, Dīwān 'Abd as-Subḥān gathered an army of his Jat murīds, attacked the Raja of Bikaner, and thereby expanded the shrine's territorial holdings for the first time east of the Sutlej.
In 1797, Saiad Sultan assumed the leadership of Muscat, but he did not relinquish control of the Gwadar enclave to Kalat.
In 1799 CE, the Sikh Empire established its rule, undertaking conquests into the Kashmir- and Durrani Empire-held territories, shaping the diverse and complex history of Punjab.
In 1809, the British sent an emissary to the court of Shah Shujah in Peshawar, marking the first diplomatic meeting between the British and Afghans.
In 1823, Ranjit Singh returned to capture Peshawar, and was met by the armies of Azim Khan at Nowshera.
In 1837, threatened by a possible Russian invasion of South Asia via the Khyber and Bolān Passes, a British envoy was sent to Kabul to gain support of the Emir, Dost Mohammed.
In 1842, Dogra Commander Wasir Lakhpat, with the active support of Ali Sher Khan (III) from Kartaksho, conquered Baltistan for the second time.
In 1856, British General John Jacob had urged his government to occupy Quetta given its strategic position on the western frontier.
In 1876, northern Baluchistan became one of the presidencies and provinces of British India in colonial India.
In 1877, the British made an agreement with then Khan of Kalat, Mir Khudadad Khan to rule Quetta, which started the regime of Sir Robert Groves Sandeman.
In 1883, Sir Robert Groves Sandeman negotiated with the Khan of Kalat, Khudadad Khan, and secured British control over the pass in exchange for an annual fee.
In 1887, small additional areas of Balochistan were declared British territory.
In 1888, the old fort was mostly removed, and the battery reinforced.
In 1892, Martin Conway led a British expedition that reached "Concordia" on the Baltoro Glacier.
In 1901 the frontier districts beyond the Indus were separated from Punjab and made into a new province: the North-West Frontier Province.
In 1901, the British carved out the northwest portions of Punjab Province to create the Northwest Frontier Province (NWFP), which was renamed "Khyber Pakhtunkhwa" in 2010.
In 1919 a British officer ordered his troops to fire on a crowd of demonstrators, mostly Sikhs in Amritsar.
In 1919, Colonel Reginald Dyer ordered troops under command to fire on a crowd of demonstrators, mostly Sikhs in Amritsar.
In 1937, Karl Wien led another expedition to the mountain, following the same route as Merkl's expeditions had done.
In 1942 floods destroyed a large part of the line and all through running ceased.
In 1947, the Indus delta, along with rest of Sindh became a part of Pakistan.
In 1947, violence did not constitute a major part of the Sindhi partition experience, unlike in Punjab.
In 1947, when Pakistan gained independence there were 124 districts.
In 1948, Karachi was separated from Sind Province to form the Federal Capital Territory.
In 1949, a formal cease-fire line separating the Indian- and Pakistani-controlled parts of Kashmir came into effect.
In 1949, the Government of Azad Kashmir handed over the administration of Gilgit-Baltistan to the federal government under the Karachi Agreement.
In 1952, the four princely states in the southwest formed the Baluchistan States Union.
In 1954, Pakistan engaged the United States Geological Survey (USGS) to conduct a survey of its coastline.
In 1957, a storage Dam was proposed on the Ravi River for irrigation purposes only.
In 1958 the Gwadar enclave was transferred to Pakistani control as part of the district of Makran.
In 1958, President Iskandar Mirza enacted martial law as part of a military coup by the Pakistan Army's chief Ayub Khan.
In 1960, Lower Tippera was renamed Comilla.
In 1960, the federal capital was moved from Karachi to Rawalpindi and in 1961, the Federal Capital Territory was also merged into West Pakistan.
In 1962, Dacca was made the legislative capital of the country due to East Pakistan's high population.
In 1965, Pakistan implemented the Kaptai Dam hydroelectric project in the southeastern part of East Pakistan with American assistance.
In 1966, Awami League leader Sheikh Mujibur Rahman announced the six-point movement in Lahore.
In 1966, Mujib demanded that separate foreign exchange accounts be kept and that separate trade offices be opened overseas.
In 1966, the capital was again moved to the newly constructed city of Islamabad.
In 1969, 2 new districts (Tangail and Patuakhali) in East Pakistan were formed, bringing the total to 126.
In 1969, President Yahya Khan consolidated control, but faced a devastating cyclone in East Pakistan resulting in 500,000 deaths.
In 1969, a Northern Areas Advisory Council (NAAC) was created, later renamed to Northern Areas Council (NAC) in 1974 and Northern Areas Legislative Council (NALC) in 1994.
In 1969, two new districts were created with Tangail separated from Mymensingh and Patuakhali from Bakerganj.
In 1970, Pakistan conducted its first democratic elections since independence, intending to transition from military rule to democracy.
In 1970, Yahya Khan organised Pakistan's first federal general election.
In 1970, brothers Günther and Reinhold Messner made the third ascent of the mountain and the first ascent of the Rupal Face.
In 1971, East Pakistan became the newly independent state Bangladesh, which means "country of Bengal" or "country of Bengalis" or "land of Bengalis" in the Bengali language.
In 1971, India and Pakistan fought another war over East Pakistan, with Indian forces aiding its independence, leading to the creation of Bangladesh.
In 1971, the Bengali-majority wing of East Pakistan seceded from the Pakistani union following the Bangladesh Liberation War, consequently forming the independent People's Republic of Bangladesh.
In 1971, the exclave of East Pakistan seceded as the new country of Bangladesh after a nine-month-long civil war.
In 1972, the then current border between the Indian and Pakistani controlled parts of Kashmir was designated as the "Line of Control".
In 1974, the remaining princely states of Hunza and Nagar were abolished and their territories merged into the Gilgit Agency, following which the Northern Areas were formed.
In 1975, portions of the districts of Peshawar and Dera Ismail Khan were separated to form the Federally Administered Tribal Areas.
In 1976 a team of four made the sixth summit via a new route on the Rupal Face (second ascent on this face), then named the Schell route after the Austrian team leader.
In 1978, Reinhold Messner returned to the Diamir Face and achieved the first completely solo ascent of an 8,000-metre (26,000 ft) peak.
In 1980, UNESCO designated Taxila as a World Heritage Site.
In 1981, the region surrounding Islamabad was separated from Punjab province, and renamed to the Islamabad Capital Territory.
In 1982, the Government of Pakistan installed a lighthouse on the island for the safety of passing vessels, which was replaced by a solar-powered one in 1987.
In 1984 the territory's importance shot up within Pakistan with the opening of the Karakoram Highway and the region's population became more connected to mainland Pakistan.
In 1984, India launched Operation Meghdoot, a military operation that gave India control over all of the Siachen Glacier, including its tributaries.
In 1984, the French climber Lilliane Barrard became the first woman to climb Nanga Parbat, along with her husband Maurice Barrard.
In 1986, two Polish expeditions summited via two new routes, the Magic Line and the Polish Line (Jerzy Kukuczka and Tadeusz Piotrowski).
In 1990, it successfully launched its first satellite, becoming the first Muslim nation and second in South Asia to achieve this milestone.
In 1992 flooding during Monsoon season killed 1,834 people across the country.
In 1993 flooding during Monsoon rains killed 3,083 people over South Asia, 15 of whom were in Pakistan.
In 1994, a Legal Framework Order (LFO) was created by the KANA Ministry to serve as the de facto constitution for the region.
In 2001 India laid oil pipelines (about 250 kilometres long) inside the glacier to supply kerosene and aviation fuel to the outposts from base camps.
In 2001, it was recorded that farmers made up 39% of Indian Punjab's workforce.
In 2001–2002, poverty incidences were at 48% and by 2005–2006, these were at 50.9%.
In 2002, the city received snow after a gap of five years.
In 2003, IMD substantially changed its forecast methodology, model, and administration.
In 2003, the province manufactured 90% of the paper and paper boards, 71% of the fertilisers, 69% of the sugar and 40% of the cement of Pakistan.
In 2004 and 2005, the city received normal rains after three years without snowfall while in 2006, 2007 and 2009 the city received no snow.
In 2005 and 2015 there were some major earthquakes.
In 2005, Pakistan hosted an international seminar on "Physics in Developing Countries" for the International Year of Physics.
In 2005, both countries proposed a joint energy security plan, aiming for a generation capacity exceeding 160,000 MWe by 2030.
In 2005, the coalition successfully passed the "Prohibition of Use of Women in Photograph Bill, 2005," leading to the removal of all public advertisements that featured women.
In 2007, Denis Urubko and Serguey Samoilov intended to climb the K2's North Face but they were stymied by increasingly deteriorating conditions.
In 2007, German geologists suggested the reason the Indian plate moved so quickly is that it is only half as thick (100 km or 62 mi) as the other plates which formerly constituted Gondwana.
In 2007, Punjab achieved a growth rate of 7.8% and during the period 2002–03 to 2007–08, its economy grew at a rate of between 7% and 8% per year.
In 2008, after the public elections, the new government decided to restore the structure of Divisions of all provinces.
In 2008, it received a snowfall of 10 centimetres (4 in) in four hours on 29 January, followed on 2 February by 25.4 centimetres (10 in) in 10 hours – the city's heaviest snowfall in a decade.
In 2008, the government restored the former divisions and appointed commissioners.
In 2009, the Northern Areas were renamed to Gilgit-Baltistan, and retained its formal status as an autonomous territory.
In 2009, the constitutional assignment (the Gilgit–Baltistan Empowerment and Self-Governance Order) granted Gilgit-Baltistan semi-provincial status, providing it with self-government.
In 2010 NATO forces executed a helicopter attack across the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan and killed three Pakistani soldiers in an airstrike.
In 2010, the North-West Frontier Province was formally renamed to Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
In 2010, the announcement that the province would have a new name led to a wave of protests in the Hazara region.
In 2010, the name of the province changed to "Khyber Pakhtunkhwa".
In 2011 the provincial government approved in principle the introduction of Pashto, Saraiki, Hindko, Khowar and Kohistani as compulsory subjects for schools in the areas where they are spoken.
In 2012, 2% of the population identified as atheist in a Gallup survey.
In 2012, 25 of these were under supervision of respective provincial governments and remaining were in private care.
In 2013, Pakistan established a second nuclear complex in Karachi with plans for additional reactors, similar to Chashma.
In 2015 alone, they inked 51 agreements and Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) for cooperative efforts.
In 2015, the World Economic Forum ranked Pakistan 125th out of 141 countries in its Travel & Tourism Competitiveness Report.
In 2016, for the first time in the country's constitution, Gilgit-Baltistan was mentioned by name.
In 2017 census, Gilgit District has the highest population of 330,000 and Hunza District the lowest of 50,000.
In 2018, Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) was merged with Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and FATA agencies were converted into districts.
In 2018, PTI won the general election and Imran Khan became the 22nd Prime Minister.
In 2018, a young entrepreneur in Karachi, Abid Omar, launched the Pakistan Air Quality Initiative to monitor air quality in Pakistan's big cities.
In 2018, the National Assembly of Pakistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Provincial Assembly passed the historic FATA Merger Bill with the Twenty-Fifth Constitutional Amendment.
In 2019 M-3 became operational, which connects Lahore with Multan through Abdul Hakeem and the existing M4 near Multan.
In 2019, 2 more private ride-sharing services introduced specifically in the city of Karachi named Airlift and SWVL.
In 2019, the Baloch Liberation Army, which opposes the Gwadar Port City, targeted Chinese nationals in an attack on the Pearl-Continental Hotel.
In 2020 Prime Minister Imran Khan said that no more coal-fired power stations in Pakistan would be given permits.
In 2020, melting of a glacier in Shispare led to evacuations of the village of Hassanabad, Hunza.
In 2020, the Kemari District was created after splitting Karachi West District.
In 2020, the then Pakistani prime minister Imran Khan announced that Gilgit-Baltistan would attain provisional provincial status after the 2020 Gilgit-Baltistan Assembly election.
In 2021, the National Intelligence Coordination Committee was established to improve coordination among Pakistan's intelligence agencies.
In 2022 Prime Minister Muhammad Shehbaz Sharif said that more solar, wind and hydropower should be built to reduce the fossil fuel import bill.
In 2022 catastrophic floods hit the country.
In 2023, Pakistan ranked 26th globally in published scientific papers.
In 2023, Pakistan was the 66th-largest export economy, with a trade deficit of US$21.3 billion.
In 2023, Pakistan's installed electricity generation capacity was ~45,885 MWt.
In 2023, Sunil Bajpai and colleagues described the remains of Tharosaurus indicus, a new species of the herbivorous sauropod dinosaur found in the Thar Desert in India.
In 2025, Pakistan ranked 158 out of 180 countries in the Press Freedom Index by Reporters Without Borders, highlighting restrictions on freedom of the press.
In 2025, the Government of Punjab launched the Green E-Taxi Scheme to provide electric vehicles for taxi drivers, aiming to reduce emissions and modernize urban transport.
In 2025, the Jaffar Express was hijacked by the Balochistan Liberation Army in Bolan Pass.
In 305 BCE, the Mauryan Emperor conquered the wider region from the Greeks, and probably established control of Swat, until their control of the region ceased around 187 BCE.
In 327 BCE, Alexander the Great fought his way to Odigram and Barikot and stormed their battlements; in Greek accounts, these towns are identified as Ora and Bazira.
In 635 or 636 CE, the Hindu Brahman dynasty controlled parts of Balochistan.
In 711 CE, the Arab general Muhammad bin Qasim crossed Hub River when he passed through Lasbela on his way to Sindh.
In 712, Mohammed Bin Qasim defeated the Brahmin dynasty and annexed it to the Umayyad Caliphate.
In 720, the delegation of Surendrāditya (Chinese: 蘇麟陀逸之; pinyin: sūlíntuóyìzhī) reached the Chinese imperial court.
In 721–722, the Tibetan army attempted but failed to capture Gilgit or Bruzha (Yasin Valley).
In 737/738, Tibetan troops under the leadership of Minister Bel Kyesang Dongtsab of Emperor Me Agtsom took control of Little Palola.
In Afghanistan, the western edge of the range starts just beyond the northern Loya Paktia province where they meet the Koh-i-Baba range.
In April 1971, Lieutenant-General Tikka Khan succeeded General Yaqub Khan as the Corps Commander.
In April 2022, Shehbaz Sharif was elected as prime minister, after Imran Khan lost a no-confidence vote.
In Arrian's Indica, which describes the westward journey of Alexander's fleet after the Indian Campaign (325 BC), Admiral Nearchus is quoted as having anchored by an island named "Carnine".
In Arrian's The Campaigns of Alexander, the River Kabul is referred to as Κωφήν Kōphēn (Latin spelling Cophen).
In August 2000, divisions were abolished as part of a plan to restructure local governments, followed by elections in 2001.
In August 2011, the activity at the Khyber pass was again halted by the Khyber Agency administration due to the possibility of more attacks on NATO forces.
In August the oppressive heat is punctuated by the rainy season, referred to as barsat, which brings relief in its wake.
In August, 2012, the Upper and Lower Subdivisions were de-notified as Conflict zones while as a military operation continued in Masozai Area of Central Kurram Agency.
In Azad Jammu and Kashmir, a second-tier of government was formed from three administrative divisions into ten districts.
In Balakot, about 90% of the buildings in the city were reduced to rubble, and in Muzaffarabad, almost every building was either destroyed or damaged.
In Balochistan's xeric regions, date palms and Ephedra are prevalent.
In Body Building Nisar Ahmed Khilji has Mr. Balochistan and Mr. Pakistan Titles and Pakistan representation in International Body Building Contests.
In December 2010, realizing the importance of mangrove conservation, the Government of Sindh declared all the mangrove forests in the Indus Delta as "Protected Forests", under the Forest Act of 1927.
In December 2016, a Qatari prince had his hunting license rejected due to the species being endangered.
In East Pakistan, Bengali Muslims increasingly prioritised Bengali ethno-nationalism over religious nationalism.
In Ghangha Pur, a 2 ft (610 mm) narrow-gauge horse-drawn tramway is operational.
In Gilgit–Baltistan, there are ten districts divided between the two regions of Gilgit and Baltistan.
In India monsoons create an entire season in which the winds reverse completely.
In India, the Bhakra Dam is built around the river Sutlej to provide irrigation and other facilities to the states of Punjab, Rajasthan and Haryana.
In India, which has historically had a primarily agrarian economy, the services sector recently overtook the farm sector in terms of GDP contribution.
In Islamabad, there are cold winds from the north of Pakistan.
In Jainism, Mount Ashtapada of the Himalayan mountain range is a sacred place where the first Jain tirthankara, Rishabhanatha, attained moksha.
In January 1962, the cabinet finally approved the text of the new constitution, promulgated by President Ayub Khan on 1 March 1962, which came into effect on 8 June 1962.
In January 1991 a severe earthquake destroyed entire villages in the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, but far fewer people were killed in the quake than died in 1935.
In January 2009, Pakistan sealed off the bridge as part of a military offensive against Taliban guerrillas.
In January 2021 K2 became the final eight-thousander to be summited in the winter by a team of Nepalese climbers led by Nirmal Purja and Mingma Gyalje Sherpa.
In January 2025, a government spokesperson informed that Iran is investigating the possibility of moving its capital to the Makran region.
In January, temperatures can reach near freezing point.
In July 1949, the Punjab Government enacted a law for the constitution of a public corporation, the Thal Development Authority (TDA), which began its development operations the following year in 1950.
In July 2010, following abnormally heavy monsoon rains, the Indus River rose above its banks and started flooding.
In June 1958, first Geological Survey of India expedition went to the Siachen glacier.
In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, the river passes through the cities of Peshawar, Charsadda, and Nowshera.
In May 1939, Harrer was selected by the German Himalayan Foundation to take part in a new expedition to Nanga Parbat, under the leadership of Peter Aufschnaiter.
In May 2005, the Punjab provincial government created a new district by raising the status of Nankana Sahib from a tehsil of Sheikhupura District to a district in its own right.
In May 2016, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Iranian counterpart President Hassan Rouhani signed a series of twelve agreements in Tehran in a boon to India–Iran relations.
In May 2022, a severe heatwave was recorded in Pakistan and India.
In May 2022, in the desert areas of Cholistan many cattle died due to extreme heat and water shortage.
In May 2025 the representatives of himalayan nations, experts met in Nepal for the first "Sagarmatha Sambaad" (Everest Dialog) about stopping climate change and its effects on the region.
In Mountbatten's oval office, the prime ministers of around a dozen major princely states gathered to receive their copies of the plan before its worldwide broadcast.
In Muzaffarabad and Balakot, the electricity network was destroyed.
In November 1839, Dogra commander Zorawar Singh, whose allegiance was to Gulab Singh, started his campaign against Baltistan.
In November 2011, satellite images showed that the Indus River had re-entered India and was feeding the Great Rann of Kutch, Little Rann of Kutch and a lake near Ahmedabad known as Nal Sarovar.
In October 2023, Pakistan ordered the deportation of thousands undocumented refugees, citing security concerns.
In October 2025, the government divided the Swat District into two, the Upper Swat District and (lower) Swat District.
In Pakistan, all sexual activity outside of marriage is illegal.
In Pakistan, around 320 health institutions were destroyed and 44 were partially damaged.
In Pakistan, inhabitants include both Muslims and Hindus.
In Pakistan, it spreads over Punjab and Sindh starting from Tharparkar District in the east.
In Punjab and Sindh's Indus plains, tropical and subtropical dry and moist broadleaf forests as well as tropical and xeric shrublands thrive.
In Sep 2018, the Pakistan Senate expressed concern at slow rate of progress of most projects of Phase II at Gwadar as construction had not started for most projects.
In September 1974, in a visit to Northern Areas the Pakistani prime minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto announced the abolition of Hunza state.
In September 2011, The Wall Street Journal reported that Gwadar was being underused as commercial port, and that Pakistan had asked the Chinese government to assume operations of the port.
In September 2015, a case was filed in Supreme Court of Pakistan against Government of Punjab, Pakistan as it did not take any step to implement the Punjabi language in the province.
In September 2018 the Ministry of Maritime of Pakistan submitted a report in Senate that during the last five years, 99 ships loaded with cargo from seven different countries anchored at Gwadar Port.
In September 2020, it was reported that Pakistan decided to elevate Gilgit-Baltistan's status to that of a full-fledged province.
In September, it rains more on the spectacular peaks surrounding the park.
In Sindh after the lapse of the Local Governments Bodies term in 2010 the Divisional Commissioners system was to be restored.
In Sindh's first provincial election after its separation from Bombay in 1936, economic interests were an essential factor of politics informed by religious and cultural issues.
In Sindh, the Indus burst its banks near Sukkur on 8 August, submerging the village of Mor Khan Jatoi.
In South Asia, the story was put into Punjabi verse by 19th-century poet and mystic Mian Muhammad Bakhsh.
In Spring 1947, an uprising against the maharaja broke out in Poonch, an area bordering the Rawalpindi division of West Punjab.
In Srinagar, the earthquake was felt with an MSK intensity of V. At areas where the seismic intensity was lower, collapses were documented.
In Uri, over 50% of the buildings were reportedly damaged after a short circuit resulted in a fire.
In Uttarakhand, the Himalayas are regionally divided into the Kumaon and Garhwal Himalayas with the high peaks of Nanda Devi and Kamet.
In Varahamihira's Brihat Samhita, there is a mention of a tribe called Makara inhabiting the lands west of India.
In Vedic Sanskrit, the range was known as upariśaina, and in Avestan, as upāirisaēna (from Proto-Iranian *upārisaina- 'covered with juniper').
In a final attempt to prevent partition, they proposed the Cabinet Mission Plan.
In a peace treaty, Seleucus ceded all territories west of the Indus River and offered a marriage, including a portion of Bactria, while Chandragupta granted Seleucus 500 elephants.
In a peace treaty, Seleucus ceded all territories west of the Indus and offered a marriage, including a portion of Bactria, while Chandragupta granted Seleucus 500 elephants.
In a recent study conducted by the Global CLEAN campaign, it was found that the average temperature in Pakistan had risen by 0.2 degrees in only two years.
In accordance with the orders of Caliph Umar, the captured war elephants were sold in Islamic Persia, with the proceeds distributed among the soldiers as share in booty.
In accordance, the East-Pakistani diaspora also composed patriotic tributes to Pakistan after the war; songs such as "Sohni Dharti" (lit.
In addition to agriculture, textiles, and arts and crafts, remittances have played a major role in the economy of Azad Kashmir.
In addition to architectural styles, evidence from any coin found here, may help to indicate if this city belonged to the period of the Turk Sultans, Lodhis or Mughals.
In addition to increased heat, drought and extreme weather in parts of the country, the melting of glaciers in the Himalayas has impacted some of the important rivers of Pakistan.
In addition to its primary transform aspect, the Chaman fault system has a compressional component as the Indian plate is colliding with the Eurasian plate.
In addition to the East Face, the North Face has not yet been climbed either.
In addition to these departments, there are several Autonomous Bodies and Attached Departments that report directly to either the Secretaries or the Chief Secretary.
In addition to these incentives, the provincial government of Balochistan was also asked to exempt PSA International from the levy of provincial and district taxes.
In addition to these, there is also a cold desert in the country.
In addition, Quetta Development Authority is responsible for provision of municipal services for the city.
In addition, Sindh's politics leans towards the left-wing and its political culture serves as a dominant place for the left-wing spectrum in the country.
In addition, the Indian Army's Army Mountaineering Institute (AMI) functions out of the region.
In all likelihood, Carnine was the name of an island in the inland sea, presently known as Khor Kalmat.
In an eleven-year period, the glacier had receded nearly 800 metres, and in seventeen years about 1700 metres.
In around 520 CE, the Chinese monk Song Yun visited the area, and recorded that area had been in ruin and ruled by a leader that did not practice the laws of the Buddha.
In both towns, the Mobilink operator was functional, but was saturated and experienced intermittent signal, and was therefore unreliable.
In brackets are the figures given by the UNOSAT.
In case of the Indus dolphin, the damming of the river has isolated the delta dolphin population from those dolphins upstream.
In cases of crop failure, livestock is often sold in order to improve financial standing.
In central Punjab, the Lahore-Sialkot Motorway (M-11) opened on 18 March 2020 and in KPK province, the Hakka-Dera Ismail Khan Motorway (M14) is also under construction.
In chemistry, Salimuzzaman Siddiqui identified the medicinal properties of the neem tree's components.
In common with the other provinces of Pakistan, Balochistan has a parliamentary form of government.
In contrast to West Pakistan, the joint electorate was highly popular in East Pakistan.
In contrast to the crowds of climbers and trekkers at the Abruzzi basecamp, usually at most two teams are encamped below the North Ridge.
In contrast to the desert and rugged mountainous terrain of West Pakistan, East Pakistan featured the world's largest delta, 700 rivers, and tropical hilly jungles.
In contrast, landline telephone infrastructure was completely destroyed.
In contrast, the Indian continental plate was obstructed because of its thickness and buoyancy.
In contrast, the Muslim League chose to support the UK's war efforts, thereby nurturing the possibility of establishing a Muslim nation.
In contrast, the continental crust underlying dry land has an average thickness of 35 km (22 mi) and is rich in silica, which is less dense than basalt.
In contrast, the relatively flat and low-lying Indus delta is situated due east and south of the Sulaimans.
In early 2007, the province experienced one of the coldest winters in the last 70 years.
In effect at eighteen km northwest of Las Bela at Gandakahar, near the ruins of an ancient town are the caves of Gondrani, and as their constructions show these caves were undoubtedly Buddhist.
In fact, it suppresses that entity so completely that when composing the name "Pakistan" for our homelands, I had to call the North-West Frontier Province the Afghan Province.
In fact, the delta is subjected to the highest wave action of any river delta in the world.
In field hockey, Pakistan boasts four Hockey World Cup wins, eight Asian Games gold medals, and three Olympic gold medals.
In flat areas between mountains, soil is deep with marshy vegetation.
In football, Pakistan established the Pakistan Football Federation soon after its creation, and it is known for producing FIFA World Cup balls.
In his publication in Pakistan and the Gulf Economist, Haider put forth the argument that the sea water on the Baloch coast was pollution free due to the lack of human presence and activity.
In hockey, Quetta has produced Zeeshan Ashraf and Shakeel Abbasi, who were members of the Pakistan's national hockey team.
In its judgement of 28 May 1999, the Court directed the Government of Pakistan to ensure the provision of equal rights to the people of Gilgit-Baltistan, and gave it six months to do so.
In just a year it has added three-quarters of a billion new trees, as part of a “tree tsunami” aimed at reversing worsening forest loss.
In late 2015, around 2000 acres of land were leased to a Chinese company for 43 years for the development of Gwadar Special Economy Zone.
In late 644 CE Caliph Umar dispatched an army under the command of Hakam ibn Amr for the wholesale invasion of Makkuran.
In light of the threats, Indus Delta was designated a Ramsar site on November 5, 2002.
In many ways, they have more in common regarding climate with Central Asia than South Asia.
In matters of civil administration, the Chief Secretary assists the Chief Minister on executing its right to ensure the writ of the government and the constitution.
In memorial of East Pakistan, the East-Pakistan diaspora in Pakistan established the East-Pakistan colony in Karachi, Sindh.
In metropolitan cities such as Karachi and Hyderabad, the MQM (another party of the left with the support of Muhajirs) has a considerable vote bank and support.
In mid-19th century British India, ancient Taxila's ruins were rediscovered by British archaeologist Alexander Cunningham.
In mid-600s, Gilgit came under Chinese suzerainty after the fall of the Western Turkic Khaganate to Tang military campaigns in the region.
In mid-644 the Battle of Rasil was fought between the forces of the Rashidun Caliphate and the Rai Kingdom; the Raja's forces were defeated and forced to retreat to the eastern bank of the Indus.
In narrow valleys—lying between steep mountain faces—there can be dramatically different weather along their two margins.
In negative dipole years, the reverse happens, making Indonesia much warmer and rainier.
In order to promote public use, construction of roads and rest houses is permitted.
In places, the paragneisses include clinopyroxene-hornblende-bearing psammites, garnet (grossular)-diopside marbles, and biotite-graphite phyllites.
In recent years many citizens of these Himalayan communities have started to notice the extreme effects of climate change by experiencing nature itself.
In recent years the Kurram Valley has once again assumed a strategic position and has been the site of intense Taliban activities.
In recent years, new national highways have been built, with the addition of motorways which have improved trade and logistics within the country.
In recent years, scientists have monitored a notable increase in the rate of glacier retreat across the region as a result of climate change.
In reciprocation, China stands as Pakistan's largest trading partner, with substantial investment in Pakistani infrastructure, notably the Gwadar port.
In response to flooding, farmers have created more basins, dam construction, and small drainage canals.
In response to the levees construction, the river has been aggrading rapidly over the last 20 years leading to breaches upstream of barrages and inundation of large areas.
In response to this citizens have begun adapting and adopting new practices.
In response to this rather than push for policy change, citizens have begun to adapt to climate change.
In response, Pakistan closed the pass to NATO supply trucks, causing a convoy of NATO trucks to queue at the closed border.
In response, a Climate Change Commission was required to be formed in order to help Pakistan meet its climate goals.
In retaliation, farmers have begun killing snow leopards, seeking to protect their livestock and their livelihoods.
In revenge, his son Masud defeated them at the latter place, which lies at the foot of the Karman Mountains on the edge of the desert.
In rural areas, the literacy rate is 48.44% of the population while in urban areas it is 66.86%.
In some places, the river flows more than 7 kilometres (4+1⁄2 miles) below the high-point of the massif.
In some upland lakes and tributaries of the Punjab region snow trout and mahseer are still common, but once the Indus basin reaches its lower plain the former group is absent and the latter are rare.
In some years, the rain quantity is sufficient but its timing arbitrary.
In southwestern Punjab, the mountains extend into the Dera Ghazi Khan and Rajanpur districts, which are located west of the Indus River on the boundary with Balochistan.
In spite of the Kunar carrying more water than the Kabul, the river continues as the Kabul River after this confluence, mainly for the political and historical significance of the name.
In spite of this displacement and other destruction caused in the rest of Pakistan, however, many people in the delta considered the floods as "good news".
In spite of various reforms packages over the years, the situation is essentially unchanged.
In spring, it is covered by sweeps of wildflowers and a wide variety of butterflies.
In terms of non-communicable diseases, increased rates of hypertension, diabetes and cardiovascular disease were observed as access to routine health care services became severely disrupted.
In the 10th century, the tribe of the Gakhars/Khokhars, formed a large part of the Hindu Shahi army according to the Persian historian Firishta.
In the 14th century, Sufi Muslim preachers from Persia and Central Asia introduced Islam in Baltistan.
In the 15th century, Mir Chakar Rind became the first Sirdar of Afghan, Iranian, and Pakistani Balochistan.
In the 15th century, Pothohar was conquered by Malik Jasrat Khokhar who had conquered most of Punjab from the Delhi Sultanate.
In the 16th century Mughal Empire it referred to a relatively smaller area between the Indus and the Sutlej rivers.
In the 16th century Mughal Empire the Punjab region was divided into three, with the Lahore Subah in the west, the Delhi Subah in the east and the Multan Subah in the south.
In the 1930s, Nanga Parbat became the focus of German interest in the Himalayas.
In the 1950s, Pakistan opposed the Soviet Union for geopolitical reasons.
In the 19th century, Maharajah Ranjit Singh established the Sikh Empire based in the Punjab.
In the 19th century, the British East India Company (EIC) aimed to secure the Khyber Pass from Russia as part of the Great Game.
In the 1st century, the people of these regions were followers of the Bon religion while in the 2nd century, they practised Buddhism.
In the 2002 National and Provincial elections, the Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal (MMA), an alliance of religious political parties, won all the seats.
In the 2008 election, the ANP won two Sindh assembly seats in Karachi.
In the 2013 general election Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf won a majority in the provincial assembly and has now formed their government in coalition with Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan.
In the 2017 TV series Dark, a German character mentions that "Nanga Parbat has been conquered" when explaining that the current year is 1953.
In the 2018 Hollywood movie Mission: Impossible – Fallout, a rogue agent plants nuclear bombs at the base of the Siachen Glacier.
In the 5th and 6th centuries CE, Punjab faced devastating Hunnic invasions, yet the Vardhana dynasty emerged triumphant, ruling over Northern India.
In the 6th century Somana Palola (greater Gilgit-Chilas) was ruled by an unknown king.
In the 9th century, the Hindu Shahi dynasty originating from the region of Oddiyana, replaced the Taank kingdom, ruling Western Punjab along with eastern Afghanistan.
In the British colonial period, Indo-European buildings emerged, blending European and Indian-Islamic styles.
In the Early Carboniferous, an early stage of rifting developed between the Indian subcontinent and the Cimmerian Superterranes.
In the Indus valley, the Acacia nilotica (babul) (babbur) is the most dominant and occurs in thick forests along the Indus banks.
In the Kirthar range at 1,800 m (5,900 ft) and higher at Gorakh Hill and other peaks in Dadu District, temperatures near freezing have been recorded and brief snowfall is received in the winters.
In the Lasbela, Hub districts and in Kachhi plain region a large minority of the population speaks Lasi and Siraiki, which are dialects of Sindhi.
In the Mahabharata, the common name of the river was Chandrabhaga (Sanskrit: चन्द्रभागा) because the river is formed from the confluence of the Chandra and the Bhaga rivers.
In the Mesozoic era (252 to 66 mya), the area was a low lying peneplain, covered by shallow waters.
In the Mongol invasion of the Khwarazmian Empire, Genghis Khan invaded the region from the northeast in one of his many conquests to create the huge Mongol Empire.
In the Norian (210 Ma), a major rifting episode split Gondwana in two parts.
In the North-West Frontier Province(presently known as Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, though excluding a few areas of present KPK), it was estimated that 30% of exchanges and 8% of lines were disrupted.
In the Pashto language, Zhob means "oozing water".
In the Punjab region of Pakistan, 42.3% of the labour force is engaged in the agriculture sector.
In the Rigveda, notably in the later hymns, the meaning of the word is narrowed to refer to the Indus River in particular; for example, in the list of rivers mentioned in the hymn of Nadistuti sukta.
In the Rigveda, the Kurrum is mentioned as Krumu.
In the South, Punjab's elevation reaches 2,327 metres (7,635 ft) near the hill station of Fort Munro in Dera Ghazi Khan.
In the case of the Indian subcontinent, moisture is sometimes shed as rain when the storm system encounters the Himalayas.
In the case of the monsoon, the cause is primarily orographic, due to the presence of highlands in the path of the winds.
In the central and northern parts of state weather remains moderate hot in summers and very cold and chilly in winter.
In the central and northern parts of the state, the weather remains moderately hot in the summer and cold and chilly in the winter.
In the centre is a fertile plain along the Indus River.
In the colonial era, the Hindu Kush was considered, informally, the dividing line between Russian and British areas of influence in Afghanistan.
In the cooler months, nights can be cold and frosts remain frequent; snow is very rare, and daytime temperatures remain comfortably warm with abundant sunshine.
In the country's northwest, sand dunes are moving onto agricultural land, their path cleared by the loss of stabilizing vegetation due to firewood gathering and overgrazing.
In the district of Lasbela, there is an oil refinery owned by Byco International Incorporated (BII), which is capable of processing 120,000 barrels of oil per day.
In the early 16th century, the region remained under the Mughal Empire.
In the early 18th century, it was used to transport devdar woods for Bilaspur district, Hamirpur district, and other places along the Sutlej's banks.
In the early 1900s, modern transportation did not exist in the region: it took "fourteen days just to reach the foot of the mountain".
In the early 19th century, Swat emerged as an independent state under Saidu Baba.
In the elevated areas that are less populated and more spread out, forestry, corn, and livestock are the main sources of income.
In the first chapter of Mistress of Mistresses, by E.R.
In the following four decades, Pakistan has been ruled by governments that alternated between civilian and military, democratic and authoritarian, relatively secular and Islamist.
In the initial phases of response, the Pakistan Medical corps, Corps of Engineers, Army Aviation and many infantry units were heavily involved.
In the jointly written book with Barbara E. Curry, Humpback Dolphins (Sousa spp.
In the last ice age, a connected series of glaciers stretched from western Tibet to Nanga Parbat, and from the Tarim Basin to the Gilgit District.
In the late 12th century, the historically influential Ghurid empire led by Mu'izz al-Din ruled the Hindu Kush region.
In the late 16th century, Sindh was brought into the Mughal Empire by Akbar, himself born in the Sodha kingdom in Umerkot in Sindh.
In the late 1990s, the President of Al-Jihad Trust filed a petition in the Supreme Court of Pakistan to determine the legal status of Gilgit-Baltistan.
In the late 600s CE, the rising Tibetan Empire wrestled control of the region from the Chinese.
In the late 600s and early 700s, Jayamaṅgalavikramāditya-nandin was king of Gilgit.
In the long run, the glaciers are vital lifelines of the Indus River.
In the lower Kurram, where for climatic reasons candidates for settlements were fewer, the problem was not easily solved.
In the meantime, a Presidential reference on Punjab Termination of Agreements Act, 2004 is pending before the Honorable Supreme Court.
In the mid-1950s various economic and social development processes were launched in Azad Kashmir.
In the middle of the great curve of the Himalayan mountains lie the 8,000 m (26,000 ft) peaks of Dhaulagiri and Annapurna in Nepal, separated by the Kali Gandaki Gorge.
In the mountainous mixed deciduous and conifer forests of the eastern Himalayas, red pandas feed in the dense understories of bamboo.
In the ninth century, the Hindu Shahi dynasty originating from the region of Oddiyana replaced the Taank kingdom in the Punjab, ruling much of Punjab along with eastern Afghanistan.
In the north it is surrounded by snow-caped mountains of the Safed Koh, locally known as Spīn Ghar in the Pashto language.
In the north of the Thal Desert there are the Salt Ranges, in the east the Jhelum and Chenab rivers and to the west the Indus River.
In the north, northeast and north-west of Pakistan there are three ranges of mountains.
In the north, the Karakoram glaciers joined those from the Kunlun Mountains and flowed down to 2,000 metres (6,600 ft) in the Tarim Basin.
In the northernmost district of Neelam, there are small communities of speakers of several other languages.
In the other direction, the main ridge arcs northeast at Rakhiot Peak (7,070 m or 23,200 ft).
In the past 5 years, many new motorways have opened up, including the M-1 and M-4.
In the past, Indians usually refrained from traveling during monsoons for practical as well as religious reasons.
In the past, there was a weir that diverted some of its water to the Sirhind Canal at this point but in the 1950s it was replaced with a barrage of the Bhakra-Nangal project.
In the post-Harappan period, Cholistan was part of the Cemetery H culture which grew as a surviving regional variant of the Harappan culture, which was then followed by the Painted Grey Ware culture.
In the previous year, the President of India, Abdul Kalam became the first head of state to visit the area.
In the recent past, rainfall variability in short time periods (about a week) were attributed to desert dust over the Arabian Sea and Western Asia.
In the rest of the country, temperatures reach great heights in the summer; the mean temperature during June is 38 °C (100 °F) in the plains, the highest temperatures can exceed 53 °C (127 °F).
In the short term, this will cause lakes to expand and bring floods and mudflows...
In the sixteenth century two Sufi tareeqat (orders) – Qadria and Naqshbandia – were introduced in Sindh.
In the south, Karachi stands as the most populous commercial hub along the Indus River.
In the southern part of the province of Punjab, the British attempted to harness the irrigation power of the water over 100 years ago when they established what came to be known as the Canal Colonies.
In the spring of 327 BC Alexander the Great crossed the Hindu Kush and advanced to Nicaea, where Omphis, king of Taxila and other chiefs joined him.
In the summer months, the Central Asian plateau heats up more than the ocean waters to its south.
In the summer of 2014, a Pakistani-Italian expedition to K2, named "K2 60 Years Later", was organized to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the first ascent of K2.
In the true desert areas, the only sources of water for animals or humans are small, scattered ponds - some that are natural (tobas) and some that are human-made (johads).
In the twenty-nine-year period 1929–1958, well before the military occupation, the glacial retreat was recorded to be about 914 metres.
In the upper end of the valley, there are two distinct communities speaking two different varieties of Shina (locally sometimes called Dardi).
In the valleys, however, summers can be hotter than on the windward side of the mountains due to lower cloud cover: Chitral can reach 40 °C (104 °F) frequently during this period.
In the winter, a high-pressure system forms and remains suspended above Central Asia, forcing air to flow in the southerly direction over the Himalayas.
In the winter, snowfall has become quite erratic (December, January and February).
In the winter, temperatures vary between 3o C and 8o C and are accompanied by cold, dry winds from the north.
In theory, this gave the League the right to form a government under the Westminster tradition.
In this Period I the inhabitants of the Kech River Valley already cultivated wheat and barley, as well as lentils.
In this area, many sub-plates or crust blocks have been recognized, which form the Central Asian and the East Asian transit zones.
In this campaign, local Sindhi Muslims identified 'Hindu' with Bombay instead of Sindh.
In this scenario the focus is primarily on an intervention method and disruption of the energy sector reducing the use of fossil fuels and the incorporation of renewable energy sources.
In this view, East Pakistan's economy would be quickly centralised and all major economic planning would be shifted to West Pakistan.
In total Punjab had an area of approximately 357 000 km square about the same size as modern day Germany, being one of the largest provinces of the British Raj.
In total, COPHC has awarded $1.02 billion worth of contracts for expansion of the port.
In total, approximately 19,000 victims in Pakistan were students who died when their schools collapsed.
In total, the Kirthars cover an area of about 9,000 square kilometers.
In total, there are 145 districts in Pakistan.
In traditional Indian geography, the mountains were known as Krishnagiri (black mountains), Kanhagiri, and Kanheri.
In winter, it is the extremely cold, and the ice-cold wind rushing down the narrow outlet becomes destructive to life.
In winter, phytoplankton suited to low-oxygen conditions turn the OMZ bright green.
Included are some of the mountains named with a K code, the most well-known of which is the K2.
Including all tributary glaciers, the Siachen Glacier system covers about 700 km2 (270 sq mi).
Increasing plastic pollution on the shores made it difficult for them to dig, so the female turtles left without laying eggs.
India air-lifted troops to defend the Kashmir Valley and the invaders were pushed back behind Uri.
India can use its water for domestic and agricultural uses or for "non-consumptive" uses such as hydropower.
India contains another large portion (35%) of the Indus Basin's population.
India controls about 45.1% of Kashmir, including Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, while Pakistan controls roughly 38.2%, comprising Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit−Baltistan.
India has categorically stated that India will not pull its army from Siachen until the 110-km long AGPL is first authenticated, delineated and then demarcated.
India insisted that Pakistan had to withdraw first and Pakistan contended there was no guarantee that India would withdraw afterwards.
India is allowed non-consumptive uses such as power generation.
India is entitled to store up to 1.2 million acre-feet (1.5 billion cubic metres) of water in its projects.
India is working on a hydropower project on a tributary of Jhelum river to establish first-use rights on the river water over Pakistan as per the Indus Waters Treaty.
India later approached the United Nations, asking it to resolve the dispute, and resolutions were passed in favour of the holding of a plebiscite with regard to Kashmir's future.
India launched Operation Meghdoot to occupy Siachen Glacier in 1984.
India's first nuclear test in 1974 gave Pakistan additional justification to accelerate its nuclear program.
India, fearing Kashmir's secession, did not hold the promised plebiscite, as it believed Kashmiris would vote to join Pakistan.
Indian empires rarely extended their control beyond the pass, with the Maurya king Chandragupta being an exception.
Indian fishermen crossing into Pakistan face a similar fate.
Indian forces mounted an offensive in the autumn of 1948 to push them back from Ladakh, but Baltistan came into the rebels' territory.
Indian troops under Operation Meghdoot pre-empted Pakistan's Operation Ababeel by just one day to occupy most of the dominating heights on Saltoro Ridge to the west of Siachen Glacier.
Indian troops were immediately airlifted into Srinagar.
Indus Delta has 17 major creeks or estuaries and numerous minor creeks.
Indus delta has shrunk by 92% since 1833.
Indus is home to mugger crocodiles, while surrounding areas host wild boars, deer, and porcupines.
Industrial use of natural gas began in 1959.
Industry, constituting 19.74% of GDP and 24% of total employment, is the second-largest sector.
Inexperienced and the large magnitude of this assignment, the government sent Rear-Admiral Mohammad Shariff as Flag Officer Commanding of Eastern Naval Command (Pakistan).
Initially a close ally during the Cold War, Pakistan's relations with the US soured in the 1990s due to sanctions over its secretive nuclear program.
Initially a dominion of the British Commonwealth, Pakistan officially drafted its constitution in 1956, and emerged as a declared Islamic republic.
Initially adopting a constitution in 1956, Pakistan saw it suspended by Ayub Khan in 1958, replaced by a second constitution in 1962.
Initially aspiring for independence, the Khan of Kalat finally acceded to Pakistan on 27 March 1948 following a period of negotiations with Pakistan.
Initiatives since 2007 made English medium education mandatory nationwide.
Instead it climbs a buttress on the left side of the Diamir Face.
Instead, Pakistan aimed to play a proactive diplomatic role in resolving the crisis, which led to tensions between the two countries.
Instead, the thrust sheets slide easy on the salt and do not build high topographic relief.
Intensity VII–VIII (Very strong–Severe) was determined in the areas south of Muzaffarabad.
Iran, an erstwhile leading oil producer, assisted in establishing the Eastern Refinery in Chittagong.
Irrigation canals were first built by the people of the Indus Valley Civilisation, and later by the engineers of the Kushan Empire and the Mughal Empire.
Irrigation itself is increasing soil salinization, reducing crop yields and in some cases rendering farmland useless for cultivation.
Irrigation will make most of the desert suitable for farming.
Islam became dominant in the region after the 11th-century conquest of the Hindu Shahi kingdom by the Ghaznavids.
Islam dominates in Pakistan, with about 96.35% of the population being Muslim.
Islam emerged as the major power in Punjab after the Umayyad army led by Muhammad ibn al-Qasim conquered the region in 711 AD.
Islam in Sindh has a long history, starting with the capture of Sindh by Muhammad Bin Qasim in 712.
Islam in Sindh has a strong Sufi ethos with numerous Muslim saints and mystics, such as the Sufi poet Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai, having lived in Sindh historically.
Islam is the state religion, with freedom of religion guaranteed by the constitution.
Islam took hold in Western Punjab under Ghaznavid rule.
Islam was introduced via southern Punjab in the 8th century, becoming the majority by the 16th century, via local conversion.
Islamabad is the nation's capital, while Karachi is its largest city and financial centre.
Islamic architecture is quite prominent as well as colonial and post-partition sites.
Isolation has helped maintain several endemic lifeforms on Astola.
Jaisalmer was founded as the new capital in 1156 by Maharawal Jaisal Singh and the state took its name from the capital.
Jam Unar was the founder of Samma dynasty mentioned by Ibn Battuta.
Jasimuddin and Abbasuddin Ahmed promoted Bengali folk music.
Jasrath Khokhar was one of their major chiefs who helped Sultan Zain Ul Abideen of Kashmir Sultanate to gain his throne and ruled over vast tracts of Jammu and North Punjab.
Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Mumbai is the largest port in the Arabian Sea, and the largest container port in India.
Jayapala defaulted on the payment and took to the battlefield once more.
Jayapala however, lost control of the entire region between the Kabul Valley and Indus River.
Jean-Jacques Annaud's 1997 film Seven Years in Tibet opens with Heinrich Harrer's obsession to climb Nanga Parbat at the beginning of World War II.
Jinnah and his successors allowed Yar Khan to retain his title until the province's dissolution in 1955.
Jinnah refused Mountbatten's offer to serve as Governor-General of Pakistan.
Jinnah's emergence as the voice of the Indian Muslims, compelled the British to consider their stance, despite their reluctance to partition India.
Jinnah, closely associated with the ulama, was described upon his death by Maulana Shabbir Ahmad Usmani as the greatest Muslim after Aurangzeb, aspiring to unite Muslims worldwide under Islam.
Jodhpur, the largest city in the region, lies in the scrub forest zone at the desert's perimeter.
Jonathan Neale wrote a book about the 1934 climbing season on Nanga Parbat called Tigers of the Snow.
Juds are actually a sub-clan of Janjuas and there are still 7 seven villages of Juds near Dhrabi area of Chakwal including Dhrabi village and dam.
Just before his death, he called his son Sayyid Ala-ud-Din Shah from Badaun, and nominated him as successor.
K2 Basecamp, Deosai, Naltar, Fairy Meadows Bagrot Valley and Hushe valley are common places to visit in Gilgit Baltistan.
K2 Kahani (The K2 Story) by Mustansar Hussain Tarar describes his experiences at K2 base camp.
K2 features several routes, each with distinct characteristics; however, they all share common challenges.
K2 is nicknamed "The King of Mountains" and "The Mountaineers' Mountain", as well as "The Mountain of Mountains", a phrase popularized by Italian climber Reinhold Messner in his book on K2.
K2 is notable for its local relief as well as its total height.
K2 is only fleetingly glimpsed from the end of the Baltoro Glacier, beyond which few local people would have ventured.
K2 is ranked 22nd by topographic prominence, a measure of a mountain's independent stature.
K2 lies in the northwestern Karakoram Range.
K2 was known to be harder still, and its remoteness meant that even reaching its base would be a major undertaking.
K2's eastern face remains un-climbed, partly because of the hazards associated with the instability of its ice and snow formations.
K2's height given on maps and encyclopedias is 8,611 metres (28,251 ft).
K2's summit is well above the altitude at which high-altitude pulmonary edema (HAPE) and high-altitude cerebral edema (HACE) can occur.
K2, however, appeared not to have acquired a local name—possibly due to its remoteness.
KPT is planning to link Manoro island with a harbour-crossing bridge which will connect the west and east wharfs of KPT.
Kabul River Basin (KRB) is a government authority under the Ministry of Energy and Water (MEW) of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (GoIRA).
Kabul fell to the army of Al-Ma'mun, the seventh Abbasid caliph, in 808 and the local king agreed to accept Islam and pay annual tributes to the caliph.
Karachi Circular Railway, partially revived in November 2020, offers public transit services in the Karachi metropolitan area.
Karachi district has been de-merged into its five original constituent districts: Karachi East, Karachi West, Karachi Central, Karachi South and Malir.
Karachi hosts a historic Roman Catholic community established by Goan and Tamil migrants during British colonial rule.
Karachi hosts a significant number of Bengali settlements, and large Rohingya migration made it one of their largest populations outside Myanmar.
Karachi is the largest Muslim city in the world.
Karachi's Burmese community resides in various slums across the city.
Karachi's Green Line Metrobus, operational since December 2021, is part of a larger metrobus project financed by the Government of Pakistan and initiated in February 2016.
Karachi, Pakistan's largest city, lies west of the delta on the coast of the Arabian Sea.
Karachi, Pakistan's largest city, releases sewage and discharge from industrial units into the Arabian sea, most of which is untreated.
Karachi, located along the southern coast, is the capital and largest city.
Karakoram is a Turkic term meaning black gravel.
Keenjhar Lake (Urdu: کینجھر جھیل; Sindhi: ڪینجھر ڍنڍ), commonly called Karli Lake (Urdu: کرلی جھیل; Sindhi: ڪلري ڍنڍ), is located in Thatta District of the Sindh province in Pakistan.
Keenjhar Lake has been declared a Ramsar site and a wildlife sanctuary.
Keenjhar Lake is a popular tourist resort.
Keith Callard observed that Pakistanis believed in the essential unity of purpose and outlook in the Muslim world, expecting similar views on religion and nationality from Muslims worldwide.
Kerala is one of the top destinations for tourists interested in Ayurvedic treatments and massage therapy.
Key conflicts included those against the Baloch Talpur dynasty, resolved by the Battle of Miani (1843) in Sindh, the Anglo-Sikh Wars (1845–1849), and the Anglo–Afghan Wars (1839–1919).
Khaliquzzaman, a prominent Muslim League leader, declared Pakistan's ambition to unite all Muslim countries into Islamistan, a pan-Islamic entity.
Khan enacted the Constitution of Pakistan of 1962 which ended universal suffrage.
Khan invited Mujib to Rawalpindi to take the charge of the office, and negotiations took place between the military government and the Awami Party.
Khan organised the 1970 Pakistani general election.
Khan replaced Mirza as president and became the country's strongman for eleven years.
Khan replaced Mirza as president and launched a crackdown against pro-democracy leaders.
Kharochan, until the 1970s was a bustling city in the delta.
Khes and pattu are also manufactured with wool or cotton.
Khes is a form of blanket with a field of black white and pattu has a white ground base.
Khizr Khan captured Delhi on 28 May 1414 thereby establishing the Sayyid dynasty.
Khizr Khan did not take up the title of Sultan, but continued the fiction of his allegiance to Timur as Rayat-i-Ala (vassal) of the Timurids - initially that of Timur, and later his son Shah Rukh.
Khizr Khan did not take up the title of sultan, but continued the fiction of his allegiance to Timur as Rayat-i-Ala(vassal) of the Timurids - initially that of Timur, and later his son Shah Rukh.
Khizr Khan established the Sayyid dynasty, the fourth dynasty of the Delhi Sultanate after the fall of the Tughlaqs.
Khizr Khan established the Sayyid dynasty, the fourth dynasty of the Delhi Sultanate, with four rulers ruling from 1414 to 1451 for 37 years.
Khizr Khan was originally a noble in the Delhi Sultanate during the Tughlaq Dynasty and was the governor of Multan under Sultan Firuz Shah.
Khizr Khan was succeeded by his son Mubarak Shah after his death on 20 May 1421.
Khizr Khan was succeeded by his son Sayyid Mubarak Shah after his death on 20 May 1421.
Khowar folk music is popular in Chitral and northern Swat.
Khun means "blood" and jerav means "to stream" in Wakhi, the native language of the region.
Khunjerab National Park (Urdu: خنجراب نیشنل پارک) is a national park in Gilgit Baltistan, Pakistan.
Khunjerab National Park is Pakistan's third largest national park, and is adjacent to the Taxkorgan Natural Reserve in China.
Khunjerab National Park was established primarily as a means to protect the Marco Polo sheep (as well as snow leopards and bharal) living in the area.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and North eastern Punjab were badly affected during the monsoon rains when dams, rivers and lakes overflowed.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has a huge gap in literacy rate between sexes – for men it is 66.67% while the female literacy rate is 34.58%, just over half the male literacy rate.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has a varied geography of rugged mountain ranges, valleys, rolling foothills, and dense agricultural farms.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has the third largest provincial economy in Pakistan.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has traditionally had a very low literacy rate, although this is changing in recent times.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa is rich in gemstones.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa was thought to be another leftist region of the country after Sindh.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa's share of Pakistan's GDP has historically comprised 10.5%, although the province accounts for 11.9% of Pakistan's total population.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa's share of Pakistan's GDP has historically comprised 10.5%, amounting to over US$ 30 billion.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa,[b] commonly abbreviated KP or KPK and formerly known as the North-West Frontier Province (NWFP), is a province of Pakistan.
Kirthar National Park is a national park located in the Kirthar Mountains range in Dadu and Jamshoro districts of Sindh, Pakistan.
Known for its natural sites, the district was a popular tourist destination.
Kunhar is the main river in the Naran Valley.
Kurram District (Urdu: ضلع کرم) is a district of Kohat Division in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.
Kurram District is currently subdivided into three Tehsils.
Kurram was a stronghold of the TTP till 2008 when the Pakistani Army ordered a military operation in the Agency to flush out the militants.
Kushan rule began what is considered by many to be the golden age of Gandhara.
Kutte Mar may have been the place where the Khura inscription of Toramana was found (Buhler 1891–92, 238–41; Sircar 1965: 422–4).
Lahore also boasts the Lahore Metrobus, the first of its kind in Pakistan, operational since February 2013.
Lahore also boasts the vibrant Wazir Khan Mosque, and the lush Shalimar Gardens.
Lahore and Gujranwala Divisions have the largest concentration of small light engineering units.
Lahore is the capital and largest city of the province.
Lahore was a noted center of learning and culture, and Rawalpindi became an important military installation.
Lake Rakshastal used to be part of the Sutlej river basin long ago and separated from the Sutlej due to tectonic activity.
Lal Suhanra is the only national park established before the independence of the nation in August 1947.
Lalliya had reclaimed the territory at and around Kabul between 879 and 901 CE after it had been lost under his predecessor to the Saffarid dynasty.
Land between two rivers is called DOAB in the local language.[i.e.
Landslides are common in the northern mountains.
Landslides on the Karakoram Highway are very common.
Large and massive quadrangular stone building were constructed already before 4000 BCE.
Large areas of the park are covered with drift sand and can be classified as coastal semi desert.
Large brown trout are found in the lake, up to about seven kilograms.
Large-scale diversion of the river's water for irrigation has raised far-reaching issues.
Large-scale manufacturing (LSM) dominates, representing 12.2% of GDP, with cement production thriving due to demand from Afghanistan and the domestic real estate sector.
Largely underdeveloped, its economy is also dominated by natural resources, especially its natural gas fields.
Larger estimates, including major displacements because of extreme weather, suggest as many as 20 million migrants from rural to urban communities since 2010.
Larger species such as the Laggar and Peregrine falcons also prey on rodents, lizards and small birds found in the area.
Larger vessels that cannot dock at Chabahar could dock at Gwadar and the cargo transshipped to Chabahar.
Lassi, a traditional drink from the Punjab region, and black tea with milk and sugar are popular beverages enjoyed nationwide.
Later Anchan in his successors Abdal Khan had great influence though in the popular literature of Baltistan, where he is still alive as a dark figure by the nickname "Mizos", "man-eater".
Later on 22 October 1947, tribal militias backed by Pakistan crossed the border into Jammu and Kashmir after Poonch rebellion and Jammu Muslim massacre.
Later on, Sasanian rulers from the reign of Shapur I claimed control of the Sindh area in their inscriptions, known as Hind.
Later the kingdom of Axum arose in Ethiopia to rule a mercantile empire rooted in the trade with Europe via Alexandria.
Later, Nader Shah won the allegiance of the rulers of eastern Balochistan.
Later, as the Sultanate of Delhi collapsed they became fully independent.
Later, desire for a separate administrative status for Sindh grew.
Later, local rulers once again pledged loyalty to the Mughal emperor.
Later, mud brick constructions also appear on top of some of these stone buildings.
Later, the K2 Gneiss was then intruded by leucogranite dikes and finally exhumed and uplifted along major breakback thrust faults during post-Miocene time.
Later, the establishment of a chamber of commerce and the Sust dry port in Gojal Hunza are milestones.
Later, the site of Shahi-Tump, near Turbat, was also studied.
Later, the spread of Buddhisim and Jainism in the Indian subcontinent saw the growth of Buddhism and Jainism in the Punjab.
Launched from the capital territory, iCAB will expand its operations to overall 13 cities of the country.
Law enforcement in Pakistan consists of federal and provincial police agencies.
Laxity in social restrictions also appeared simultaneously in various degrees and certain customs were assimilated to those of the Muhammadans.
Layers of soil 1 to 10 meters and in many places even thicker were observed on these rocks of different heights, which gradually increased from the beach.
Leaf and stem paste from an Andrachne cordifolia is used for wounds and as an antidote for snake bites.
Leather work is another important local cottage industry due to the large number of livestock here.
Leaving his second son Timur Shah to safeguard his interests, Ahmad Shah left India to return to Afghanistan.
Less than one-fifth of Pakistan's land area has the potential for intensive agricultural use.
Liaquat Ali Khan appointed a committee headed by Mian Iftikharuddin to draft a "declaration of freedom".
Lieutenant General AAK Niazi, the last corps commander of Eastern Corps, signed the Instrument of Surrender at about 4:31 pm.
Lieutenant-General Sahibzada Yaqub Khan was sent into East Pakistan in an emergency, following a major blow of the resignation of Vice Admiral Ahsan.
Liliane and Maurice Barrard, who had summited later that day, fell during the descent; Liliane Barrard's body was found on 19 July 1986 at the foot of the south face.
Limited agriculture, power generation, and eco tourism drive the economy of the region.
Limited infrastructure, combined with harsh weather and mountainous terrain, delayed the transport of supplies to remote areas.
Limited will refurbish a 640-meter long container handling facility, and reconstruct a 600-meter long berth at the Port of Chabahar, as well as modernise ancillary infrastructure at the berths.
Linguistically, the name is Irano-Aryan in origin and compares etymologically to those of the Little Zab and Great Zab rivers in the Tigris Basin.
Listed in the order of upstream to downstream.
Lithic tools belonging to the prehistoric Aterian culture of the Maghreb have been discovered in Middle Paleolithic deposits in the Thar Desert.
Littering, inadequate sanitation, and the heavy reliance on overburdened mules due to a shortage of porters have left trekking routes strewn with waste and animal remains.
Livestock holds much importance for meeting the area's major needs for cottage industry as well as providing milk, meat and fat.
Livestock plays an important role towards the livelihood of the people in the region, serving as a relatively secure source of income as compared to unpredictable crop yields.
Livestock productivity is limited due to fodder shortages as a result of climatic fluctuations, limited availability of veterinary services and poor access to animal vaccinations.
Lizard species such as skinks and long-tailed desert lizards are also present.
Local building construction practices, poor workmanship, economic constraints and design flaws meant that almost 780,000 buildings were destroyed or damaged beyond repair.
Local conditions play a large role in glacial retreat, however, and glacial loss can vary locally from a few m/yr to 61 m/yr.
Local facilities were created in the city for mountain climbing and caving as well as water sports.
Local household industries produce carved wooden objects, textiles, and dhurrie carpets.
Local impacts on climate are significant throughout the Himalayas.
Local inhabitants have chosen to live in towns and have relied on sustainable water sources for thousands of years.
Local soil is very fine and suitable for making pottery.
Located at an elevation of 4,250 metres (13,940 ft), the lake is regarded as one of the highest altitude lakes in the world.
Located in northern Balochistan near the Pakistan-Afghanistan border and the road across to Kandahar, Quetta is a trade and communication centre between the two countries.
Located in the central-eastern region of the country, it has the largest economy, contributing the most to national GDP in Pakistan.
Located in the northwestern region of the country, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa is the fourth largest province of Pakistan by land area and the third-largest province by population.
Located in the southwestern region of the country, Balochistan is the largest province of Pakistan by land area but is the least populated one.
Located near Nangal Town, the Sutlej enters the Anandpur Dun, which is a valley/plain region situated between the outer Himalayas and Shivalik Hills.
Located near the Pothohar Plateau, the area falls under the Indomalayan biogeographic realm and stretches for a length of approximately 190 miles (310 km) with a maximum breadth of 70 miles (119 km).
Located strategically in the world's major maritime oil supply lines and communication fiber optic corridors, Pakistan also enjoys proximity to the natural resources of Central Asian countries.
Long term mental health impact was also significant.
Long terms plans for Gwadar Port call for a total of 100 berths to be built by 2045.
Looters subsequently destroyed many of Pakistan's Buddhist artifacts, and deliberately targeted Gandhara Buddhist relics for destruction.
Lower Indus Plain starts from Mithankot up to Thatta where the Indus meets with the Indian Ocean.
Lower Sindh has a damper and humid maritime climate affected by the southwestern winds in summer and northeastern winds in winter, with lower rainfall than Central Sindh.
Lower Sindh's maximum temperature reaches about 35–38 °C (95–100 °F).
Lower flows due to the Indus Waters Treaty, as well as diversion to canals, means that lower dilution flows are available within the rivers of Pakistan.
Lower income populations faced greater hardship due to inadequate housing which was more vulnerable to collapse during the earthquake.
Lowest point: Sea level Highest point: K2 (Mt.
Lulusar Lake, also in the park, is the primary headwaters of the Kunhar River.
Lulusar-Dodipat National Park is located in the Kaghan Valley in Mansehra District of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.
Luxury SUVs and cars are owned by the elite in urban cities and by many large landowners in the villages and rural areas, thus making them a fairly common sight in Pakistan.
MSK VII was felt in Kupwara and Baramulla.
Magma, which eventually crystallizes into granite, rises into the Earth's crust below the active volcanoes but not to the surface.
Magmatic activity along this flank produced the Gangdese batholith in what is today the Tibetan trans-Himalaya.
Maharawals Ranjit Singh and Bairi Sal Singh attempted to reverse the economic decline, but the kingdom nevertheless became impoverished.
Mahmud Shah Durrani became king, and quickly sought to seize Peshawar from his half-brother, Shah Shujah Durrani.
Mahmud of Ghazni came to power in 998 CE, in Ghazna, Afghanistan, south of Kabul and the Hindu Kush range.
Main cities of Azad Kashmir include Muzaffarabad, Mirpur, Rawalakot, and Sharda.
Main football clubs from Quetta include Baloch Quetta, Hazara Club Quetta.
Major carp become common, and chameleonfish (Badis), mullet (Sicamugil) and swamp eel (Monopterus) appear.
Major cultural events include the Shandoor Polo Festival, Babusar Polo Festival and Jashn-e-Baharan or the Harvest Time Festival (Navroz).
Major estuaries of the Indus are home to the Indian Ocean humpback dolphin.
Major reserves of oil and gas has been discovered at Chak Beli Khan near Rawalpindi in Punjab.
Major visitor attractions there include Lahore Fort and Shalimar Gardens, which are now recognised World Heritage Sites.
Making Pakistan's cited article's higher than the BRIC countries put together.
Makran (Balochi: مڪران), also mentioned in some sources as Mecran and Mokrān, is the southern coastal region of Balochistan.
Makran (Urdu: ریاست مکران) was an autonomous princely state in a subsidiary alliance with British India until 1947, before acceding to Pakistan as an autonomous princely state of Pakistan.
Makran state was ruled by Gichki Nawabs, who were of Rajputs origin.
Makrān is thus bisected by the modern political boundary between Pakistan and Iran.
Male education and literacy rates are comparatively higher as compared to females but overall, still some of the lowest in the province of Punjab.
Malika Parbat, the highest peak in the valley is near the lake.
Mango and Namla, the first two campsites, are often covered in flowers and Namla has an waterfall very close to the camping area.
Mango, date palms and the more recently introduced banana, guava, orange and chiku are the typical fruit-bearing trees.
Mangrove forests are one of the most abundant ecological communities of the delta, but they have declined over the years.
Mangrove forests dominate the coastal wetlands in the south.
Mangrove forests of Indus delta now cover an area of around 600, 000 hectares.
Mankiala stupa's relic deposits were discovered by Jean-Baptiste Ventura in 1830.
Manora (Sindhi: منهوڙو, Urdu: منوڑہ) is a peninsula that forms a protective barrier between Karachi Harbour to the north and the Arabian Sea to the south.
Manora Beach Road, connecting Manora to Kakapir across Sandspit, was upgraded in 2020.
Manora Fort was built by the Talpur dynasty in 1797 in order to protect the port, which handled trade with Oman and Bahrain.
Manora and neighboring islands form a protective barrier between Karachi Harbour to the north and the Arabian Sea to the south.
Manora was mentioned by the Ottoman admiral, Seydi Ali Reis, in his 1554 book Mir'ât ül Memâlik.
Manora's long sandy beaches, which merge into the beaches of the Sandspit and then extend several kilometers to the beaches at Hawkesbay, are a popular destination for Karachi residents.
Manufactured exports, heavily reliant on agricultural raw materials like cotton and hides, face inflationary pressures due to supply shortages and market disruptions.
Many Himalayan peaks are sacred in Hinduism and Buddhism.
Many alternative names were proposed for the province.
Many bridges were damaged, with the largest damaged bridge in Balakot.
Many flyovers and underpasses are located in major urban areas of the country to regulate the flow of traffic.
Many former settlements have been abandoned as result of lack of water in the Indus and the encroaching Arabian Sea.
Many individuals and communities provided assistance spontaneously.
Many inter-basin water transfers, irrigation, hydropower and multipurpose projects have been built in India.
Many local villagers have identified climate change simply through the availability of certain native plants decreasing or shifting seasons.
Many mid and low altitude lakes remain poorly studied in terms of their hydrology and biodiversity, like Khecheopalri in the Sikkim Eastern Himalayas.
Many more species are yet to be collected.
Many nationalist leaders and activists of the Muslim League were dismayed by the suspension of the constitutionally obliged NFC Program.
Many of modern Bangladesh's leading companies were born in the East Pakistan period.
Many of the functions previously handled at a provincial level had been transferred to individual districts and tehsils.
Many of the species of the middle sections of the Indus basin are also present in the lower.
Many of these carvings and inscriptions will be inundated and/or destroyed when the planned Basha-Diamir dam is built and the Karakoram Highway is widened.
Many of these were designed to avoid or balance the ethnic connotations of Pakhtunkhwa.
Many other peaks far lower than K2 are more independent in this sense.
Many people in this region are therefore Omani.
Many researchers have lived with the Hunza people to answer this mystery including Robert McCarrison who did not discover a single person with diseases such as cancer, stomach ulcers or appendicitis.
Many spots were pointed out to me by the guides I had with me, as signalised by acts of violence, several European officers having lost their baggage during our occupation of the country.
Many strong aftershocks occurred near Muzaffarabad.
Many such peaks and mountains with less than sufficient prominence are included but not numbered in the list.
Many tournaments are also held throughout the year and in the holy month of Ramazan, night-time flood-lit tournaments are also organised.
Many types of sports are in currency, throughout the region, but most popular of them is Polo.
Many vulnerable groups are experiencing an increase in respiratory illness, cardiac illnesses, and asthma.
Many wealthy Muslim immigrants from India, Burma, and former British colonies settled in East Pakistan.
Many were also trapped in their homes, and because the earthquake occurred during Ramadan, most people were taking naps after their pre-dawn meal and had little time to escape.
Many women in rural Sindh are skilled in the production of caps.
Maple (chinar) is the identity of Kurram Agency especially Parachinar.
Marcel Ichac made a film titled Karakoram, chronicling a French expedition to the range in 1936.
Marginalized groups including children and women are experiencing more severe impacts from climate change and are often more exposed to disease and injury.
Marsh crocodiles are regularly spotted on the coastline adjacent to Hingol National Park, and there are an estimated 60 crocodiles in various places.
Masirah and the five Khuriya Muriya Islands are islands off the southeastern coast of Oman.
Maturation of hydrocarbons in the system increase from north to south and dramatically rise past the Himalayan Main Boundary Thrust.
Mauryan rule began with Chandragupta Maurya displacing the Nanda Empire, establishing the Mauryan Empire.
Mawdudi insisted that the Constituent Assembly declare the "supreme sovereignty of God" and the supremacy of the shariah in Pakistan.
Mawsynram and Cherrapunji, both in the Indian state of Meghalaya, alternate as the wettest places on Earth given the quantity of their rainfall, though there are other cities with similar claims.
Meanwhile, Baghwan Singh was appointed as administrator (thanadar) in Skardu.
Meanwhile, Faisalabad awaits its proposed rapid transit project, the Faisalabad Metrobus.
Meanwhile, Pakistan's founding fathers agreed to appoint Liaquat Ali Khan, the secretary-general of the party, the nation's first Prime Minister.
Meanwhile, Saraiki is generally spoken across a wide belt covering the southwest, while in the northwest there are large pockets containing speakers of Hindko and Pahari-Pothwari.
Meanwhile, Sindhi politics was characterised in the 1920s by the growing importance of Karachi and the Khilafat Movement.
Meanwhile, a container train service was launched by the former Prime Minister of Pakistan Yousuf Raza Gilani between Islamabad and Istanbul on 14 August 2009.
Meanwhile, the Pashtuns now appeared as a political factor.
Meat industry accounts for 1.4 percent of overall GDP.
Medicinal purposes also account for another major usage of the plants; for example Harmal is used for indigestion and Kartuma is used to treat wounds.
Megasthenes' account, as it has survived in Greek texts that quote him, states that Alexander the Great and Chandragupta met, which if true would mean his rule started earlier than 321 BCE.
Melt waters from glaciers, such as those south and east of K2, feed agriculture in the valleys and contribute significantly to the regional fresh-water supply.
Melting snow and natural tributaries are the main source of water for the Kunhar River.
Members of the union council including Union Administrator and Vice Union Administrator are elected through direct elections based on adult franchise and on the basis of joint electorate.
Members of tribes had to obtain prior permission from the police to travel anywhere, and had to keep the police informed about their movements.
Memon reports that the area of mangrove forests was 263,000 hectares in 1977 and 158,500 ha (392,000 acres) in 1990.
Menander I Soter conquered Punjab and made Sagala (present-day Sialkot) the capital of the Indo-Greek Kingdom.
Menander is noted for becoming a patron and converting to Greco-Buddhism and he is widely regarded as the greatest of the Indo-Greek kings.
Mental health clinics set up by non-governmental organisations provided some relief, but the support was often short lived to limited funding and resources.
Merkl led another expedition in 1934, which was better prepared and financed with full support from the new Nazi government.
Mesozoic in the Tandi syncline of Nepal and Warwan Valley of Kistwar in Kashmir, Permian in the "Tschuldo slice", Ordovician to Carboniferous in the "Sarchu area" on Leh-Manali Highway.
Methane comes from belching cattle, sheep and goats; manure management; and rice cultivation.
Migration of Bengalis and Rohingya to Pakistan started in the 1980s and continued till 1998.
Migration of hydrocarbons is facilitated via extensive thrust faulting.
Milk production is also a major source of income and for this reason, cows and buffaloes are raised more frequently than camels or goats.
Mining is an important industry in Pakistan.
Minister Deuba remarked "Climate change is a global crisis transcending national boundaries.
Minor leftist parties such as the People's Movement also found support in rural areas of the province.
Minor shaking was felt in Almaty, Kazakhstan.
Mirpur, Kotli, and Bhimber are all old towns of the Jammu region.
Mirza Kalich Beg is hailed as the father of modern Sindhi prose.
Modern Iran has a province named Sistan va Baluchistan that borders Pakistan and has Baluchis in an ethnic majority.
Modern day Quetta was captured by Sultan Mahmud Ghaznavi during his invasion of India.
Modern irrigation was introduced by the British East India Company in 1850 – the construction of modern canals accompanied with the restoration of old canals.
Mohammad bin Tughlaq made an expedition against Sindh in 1351 and died at Sondha, possibly in an attempt to restore the Soomras.
Mohenjo-daro was abandoned in the 19th century BC as the Indus Valley Civilization declined, and the site was not rediscovered until the 1920s.
Monsoons typically occur in tropical areas.
Montgomerie in 1856 when he first spotted the peaks of the Karakoram from more than 200 km away during the Great Trigonometric Survey of India.
Monuments left by British Indian Army units from the era of British colonial rule, as well as hillside forts, could be viewed from the highway.
More than 100 peaks exceeding elevations of 7,200 m (23,600 ft) above sea level lie in the Himalayas.
More than 20 km2 has been covered strategically, as was proposed during the last Wali's rule and constructed later-on by the Pakistani government.
More than 780,000 buildings were destroyed or damaged beyond repair.
More than one-half of the summits are over 4,500 meters, and more than fifty peaks reach above 6,500 meters.
Moreover, Pakistan is home to over 7,000 glaciers, more than anywhere except the polar regions.
Moreover, the effects of climate change have intensified heatwaves, leading to catastrophic floods that was reported that it claims the lives of more than 1,100 and 33 million were affected.
Moreover, the province as constituted under British rule also included a large tract outside these boundaries.
Most Punjabis supported the British during World War I, providing men and resources to the war effort even though the Punjab remained a source of anti colonial activities.
Most Punjabis supported the British during World War I, providing men and resources to the war effort even though the Punjab remained a source of anti-colonial activities.
Most areas in Punjab experience extreme weather with foggy winters, often accompanied by rain.
Most ascents are made during July and August, typically the warmest times of the year.
Most notably Airblue which is the second biggest airline based in Pakistan and only airline which has new generation aircraft with 2 Airbus A321neo-LRs.
Most of the Karakoram is located within the Pakistani-administered Gilgit-Baltistan region.
Most of the Punjabi homeland formed a province of British India, though a number of small princely states retained local rulers who recognised British authority.
Most of the Punjabi homeland formed a province of British India, though a number of small princely states retained local rulers who recognized British authority.
Most of the area would eventually revert to local Baloch control after Afghan rule.
Most of the basin is arid or semi-arid, with the exception of the Himalayan foothills which receive significant rainfall.
Most of the coastal rivers of Western India are also rain-fed and monsoon-dependent.
Most of the high peaks in Pakistan lie specifically in Gilgit–Baltistan with the exception of a few 7,000+ m peaks in the high Hindu Kush (the peaks marked in the northwest most region of Pakistan).
Most of the influential Sindhi tribes in the province are involved in Pakistan's politics.
Most of the information about its existence comes from the Chach Nama, a historical account of the Chach-Brahmin dynasty.
Most of the mineral gems found in Pakistan exist here.
Most of the permanent human settlements are located near the two seasonal streams of the Karon-Jhar hills.
Most of the population depends on agriculture and fishing.
Most of the population in some Asian and African countries depends on medicinal plants rather than prescriptions and such.
Most of the population is Pashtun and the main religion is Islam (Shia and Sunni) in Kurram.
Most of the precipitation in the region is in the form of snow during the late winter and spring months.
Most of the successful plays have concentrated on overturned and faulted anticlinal traps.
Most of the villages and important cities of Kashmir valley are situated on the banks of Jhelum.
Most of the water generated below the Madhopur headworks (4.549 MAF) is flowing into Pakistan from India.
Most of them have switched to Hindko, but a few communities continue using the Gujari language at home.
Most of them now live in temporary settlements between the Arghandab and Helmand Rivers and Registan.
Most of this chemical run-off consists of agriculture pesticide and fertilizer.
Most people have to stay overnight at a stone-hut village near the lake called "Mulla ki Basti".
Most plants that are grown are done so for the sole purpose of soil binding as this helps bind the sandy soil and fertilise it for future generations.
Most sub-regions of the desert are dominated by one species of plants which is a notable feature of such deserts.
Most villages do not have a single indoor toilet facility.
Most visitors come to the lake in the summer, between June and early September.
Motorcycling is another means of transportation in Pakistan.
Mountain glaciers may serve as an indicator of climate change, advancing and receding with long-term changes in temperature and precipitation.
Mountaineers who visited the area while on climbing expeditions witnessed large amount of garbage, empty ammunition shells, parachutes etc.
Mountbatten expressed his lack of support and faith in the Muslim League's idea of Pakistan.
Mubarak Shah also put down the rebellion of Jasrath Khokhar and managed to fend off multiple invasions by the Timurids of Kabul.
Mubarak Shah referred to himself as Muizz-ud-Din Mubarak Shah on his coins, removing the Timurid name with the name of the Caliph, and declared himself a Shah.
Much of Chandragupta's success is attributed to Chanakya, the author of the Arthashastra.
Much of it tastes sour due to dissolved minerals.
Much of the bedrock is composed of igneous and metamorphic rocks.
Much of the desert area is covered by sand dunes that are formed due to accumulation of wind blown sediments from the alluvial plains and the coast.
Much of the natural vegetation has been replaced by perennial grasses, which may be a response to the anthropogenic pressure on the flora by human as well as animals.
Much of the population of Gilgit-Baltistan reportedly wants the territory to become integrated with Pakistan proper as a fifth province, and opposes integration with the rest of the Kashmir region.
Much of the precipitations occur during spring and summer season.
Much of the province south of the Quetta region is sparse desert terrain with pockets of inhabitable land, mostly near rivers and streams.
Much of the province south of the Quetta region is sparse desert terrain with pockets of inhabitable towns mostly near rivers and streams.
Mughal suzerainty over the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region was partially established after Babar, the founder of the Mughal Empire, invaded the region in 1505 CE via the Khyber Pass.
Muhammad Ayub Khan was replaced by general Yahya Khan who became the Chief Martial Law Administrator.
Muhammad Waseem is a professional boxer from Quetta.
Muhammad bin Tughlaq died in March 1351 while trying to chase and punish people for rebellion and their refusal to pay taxes in Sindh and Gujarat.
Mujib-ur- Rahman announced a struggle for independence from Pakistan during a speech on 7 March 1971 and called for a non-cooperation movement from the Bengali populace.
Mujib-ur-Rahman was indicted for treason during the Agartala Conspiracy Case after launching the six-point movement.
Multan Metrobus, inaugurated in January 2017, serves Multan with its rapid transit services.
Multan and Uch were conquered after 3 attacks, and Multan's ruler, Abul Fateh Daud was defeated, famous Sun Temple was destroyed.
Multan is known for its mausoleums of saints and Sufi pirs.
Multan was the noted center of excellence of the region, which was attacked by the Greek army during the era of Alexander the Great.
Munier Chowdhury, Syed Mujtaba Ali, Nurul Momen, Sufia Kamal and Shamsur Rahman were among the leading literary figures in East Pakistan.
Muqarrab Khan Gakhar rose to power and became the Sultan of Pothohar from 1739 until 1767 succeeding his father Mu'azzam Khan.
Murree is a famous hill station stop for tourists.
Muslim League leader Chaudhry Khaliquzzaman asserted that Pakistan could only truly become an Islamic state after bringing all believers of Islam into a single political unit.
Muslim Town Flyover, Lahore is the longest flyover of the country with a length of about 2.6 km (1.6 mi).
Muslims in the western districts of the Jammu province (current day Azad Kashmir) and in the Frontier Districts province (current day Gilgit-Baltistan) had wanted to join Pakistan.
Muslims who migrated to Pakistan during the partition of India in 1947 still venerate him as Baba Haji Ratan.
Muzaffarabad and Pattan are among the wettest areas of Pakistan.
Muzaffarabad and Pattan are among the wettest areas of the state, but they don't receive snow.
Muzaffarabad and Pattan are among the wettest areas of the state.
NGOs say that under Indian laws, fisherman can face, at most, three months in prison and a $12 fine.
Nanda Parbat, a fictional city in the DC Universe, is named after the mountain.
Nanga Parbat forms the western anchor of the Himalayan Range and is the westernmost eight-thousander.
Nanga Parbat has a narrow, anticline, or arch-shaped fold whose crest dips sharply to the north, perpendicular to the general direction along which the Himalayas extend.
Nanga Parbat has tremendous vertical relief over local terrain in all directions.
Nanga Parbat is a movie by Joseph Vilsmaier about the 1970 expedition of brothers Günther Messner and Reinhold Messner.
Nanga Parbat is also the second most prominent peak of the Himalayas, after Mount Everest.
Nanga Parbat is one of the 14 eight-thousanders.
Nanga Parbat is well-known for being an extremely difficult climb, and has earned the nickname Killer Mountain for its high number of climber fatalities and pushing climbers to their limits.
Nanga Parbat was therefore the highest mountain accessible to Germans and was also deemed reasonably possible by climbers at the time.
National Conservation Strategy of 1993 was a major landmark of start of conservation of natural resources and wildlife in Pakistan.
National Library contributes to literary dissemination.
Nationalists declared the independence of India from Lahore in 1930 but were quickly suppressed.
Native trees, shrubs, and grasses are drought tolerant.
Natural gas was discovered in the northeastern part of East Pakistan in 1955 by the Burmah Oil Company.
Natural sites, like Manchar Lake have increasingly been a source of sustainable tourism in the province.
Near the Indus River, the terminus of the Sheikh Badin Hills is a spur of limestone hills known as the Kafir Kot hills, where the ancient Hindu complex of Kafir Kot is located.
Near the base of the Rupal Face is a glacial lake called Latbo, above a seasonal shepherds' village of the same name.
Nearly 750,000 people were left without access to safe and adequate housing, education or health infrastructure.
Nearly 87% of Azad Kashmiri households own farm property, and the region has the highest rate of school enrolment in Pakistan and a literacy rate of approximately 74%.
Nearly a fifth of the gymnosperms, angiosperms, and pteridophytes in the Himalayas are found to have medicinal properties, and more are likely to be discovered.
Nearly all of the arable land is actively cultivated, but outputs are low by world standards.
Nearly half the population of nearly 800,000 are Shiite Muslims.
Nearly three and a half million people were left without shelter, and approximately 138,000 people were injured in the quake.
Neelum District (spelt also Neelam; Urdu: نیلم [niːləm], Kashmiri: نيٖلَم) is a district of Pakistan-administered territory of Azad Kashmir, in the disputed Kashmir region.
Neelum and Kotli are the largest districts of Azad Kashmir by area and population respectively.
Nepal has many goals, however, that are on track with the Paris Agreement.
Nepal is a part of the Paris agreement and thus is required to have a climate action plan and is being tracked by the Climate Action Tracker.
Nepal is among the top ten most vulnerable Global South countries due to climate change in the world, standing at number 4 as of 2010 according to the climate change risk atlas.
Nevertheless, the development of national parks was mainly carried out by National Conservation Strategy of 1992.
New Mirpur City has a cricket stadium (Quaid-e-Azam Stadium) which has been taken over by the Pakistan Cricket Board for renovation to bring it up to the international standards.
New paleomagnetic results of this critical time interval from southern Tibet do not support this Greater Indian Ocean basin hypothesis and the associated dual collision model.
Next chief, Inayatullah Khan (r. 1747– 1787) was a successful general who won 22 battles against Bhangi Misl and the Multan chiefs.
Next to these islands are the Maldives islands.
Nitrous oxide is mainly from agricultural soils due to the application of synthetic fertilizers, farmyard manure, and crop residue mixes after burning.
No one has climbed the East Face of the mountain due to the instability of the snow and ice formations on that side.
Non-Islamic festivals include Lohri, Basant and Vaisakhi, which are usually celebrated as seasonal festivals.
Non-governmental organisations (NGOs) such as the World Wildlife Fund, Pakistan, play an important role to promote the culture of Sindh.
Normally, the southwest monsoon can be expected to "burst" onto the western coast of India (near Thiruvananthapuram) at the beginning of June and to cover the entire country by mid-July.
North of this lies the Transhimalaya in Tibet which is outside the Himalayas.
North-south valleys in Balochistan and Sindh have restricted the migration of peoples along the Makran Coast on the Indian Ocean east toward the plains.
Northern Areas Transport Corporation (NATCO) offers bus and jeep transport service to the two hubs and several other popular destinations, lakes, and glaciers in the area.
Northern Azad Kashmir lies in a region that experiences strong vibrations of the earth as a result of the Indian plate underthrusting the Eurasian plate.
Northern Pakistan accounts for a high level of Pakistan's tourism industry.
Northern areas of Pakistan, including Azad Kashmir, lie along the northern edge of the Indian Plate and are prone to powerful earthquakes.
Not all ethnic Gujars speak Gujari, the proportion of those who have shifted to other languages is probably higher in southern Azad Kashmir.
Not only was his territory reinstated but also expanded with Alexander's forces annexing the territories of Glausaes, who ruled to the northeast of Porus' kingdom.
Notable Buddhist architectural remnants include the Takht-i-Bahi monastery in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Notable figures in contemporary Urdu literature include Josh Malihabadi, Faiz Ahmed Faiz, and Saadat Hasan Manto.
Notable pre-Islamic settlements include Mohenjo-daro, Harappa, and Kot Diji.
Notably, Pakistan launched its first rocket into space, pioneering South Asia's space exploration.
Notably, the island serves as a nesting ground for seabirds such as coursers, gulls, and plovers.
Nothing less than a global alliance based on justice and solidarity can hope to make a dent on the existential crisis that climate change brings in its wake".
Now they are expected to occur every 3 years.
Now, on one side, there are identity issues and ethnic issues and provincial autonomy issues.
Nowadays, Iran, Afghanistan and Tibet are partly made up of these terranes.
Numerous NGOs, including Médecins Sans Frontières, Save the Children and Oxfam provided medical care, clean drinking water and temporary housing.
Numerous Sanskrit inscriptions, including the Danyor Rock Inscriptions, were discovered to be from his reign.
Numerous granitic intrusions dated at around 500 Ma are also attributed to this event.
Numerous high passes ("kotal") transect the mountains, forming a strategically important network for the transit of caravans.
Numerous land crossings already exist between Kazakhstan and China as well.
OMZs have very low levels of oxygen, sometimes so low as to be undetectable by standard equipment.
Obviously it is different from the antecedent Indus and Sutlej".
Occasionally, strong windstorms make these areas very inhospitable.
Of the 1,000 km (620 mi) coastline, around 750 km (470 mi) are in Pakistan.
Of the five highest mountains in the world, K2 has long been the deadliest: prior to 2021, approximately one person had died on the mountain for every four who reached the summit.
Off-shore high-pressure systems in the Indian Ocean push the moist summer air inland toward the low-pressure system.
Official estimates of Balochistan's population grew from approximately 7.45 million in 2003 to 7.8 million in 2005.
Offsets have been described throughout the fault in Pakistan that are young enough that "only the alluvium of the bottom of active dry washes is not displaced".
Oil and gas production began in Pakistan in the early 20th century.
On 1 April 1883, the British took control of the Bolan Pass, south-east of Quetta, from the Khan of Kalat.
On 1 February 1839, a British ship, HMS Wellesley (1815), anchored off the island of Manora.
On 1 January 1948, India took the issue of Jammu and Kashmir to the United Nations Security Council.
On 1 July 2018, Pakistan Army pilots rescued 3 foreign mountaineers stuck in a snow avalanche above the height of 19,000 feet (5,800 m) on Ultar Sar Peak near Hunza.
On 10 April, the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Police fired at unarmed protesters, leaving 7 dead and dozens injured.
On 10 December, 15 militants and a Pakistan Army soldier were killed during an engagement in the district.
On 11 December 1818 Jaisalmer became a British protectorate through the Rajputana Agency.
On 14 January 2020, Pakistan operationalized Gwadar Port for Afghan transit trade.
On 15 April 2010, Pakistan's senate officially named the province "Khyber Pakhtunkhwa" with 80 senators in favour and 12 opposed.
On 18 February 2013, Pakistan awarded a contract for construction and operation of Gwadar Port to a Chinese state-owned enterprise.
On 18 November 1738, Peshawar was captured from the Mughal governor Nawab Nasir Khan by the Afsharid armies during the Persian invasion of the Mughal Empire under Nader Shah.
On 21 October, several thousand Pashtun tribesmen from North-West Frontier Province poured into Jammu and Kashmir to help with the rebellion against the maharaja's rule.
On 24 March, dissatisfied with the performance of his generals, Yahya Khan removed General Muzaffaruddin and General Yaqub Khan from office on 1 September 1969.
On 24 October, a second provisional government of Azad Kashmir was established at Palandri under the leadership of Sardar Ibrahim Khan.
On 24 October, the Maharaja requested military assistance from India, which responded that it was unable to help him unless he acceded to India.
On 25 August, Pakistan declared a state of emergency because of the flooding.
On 26 August 2022, most villages in Ghizer district and Hunza were severely effected by the ongoing flooding displacing many people.
On 28 July 2024, Italian mountaineer Tommaso Lamantia summited K2 (8611m).
On 29 August 2009, the Gilgit-Baltistan Empowerment and Self-Governance Order 2009, was passed by the Pakistani cabinet and later signed by the then President of Pakistan Asif Ali Zardari.
On 3 February, the ship opened fire on the fort.
On 30 October 2024, Pakistan's security forces killed a member of the TTP and injured another during an intelligence-based operation in Sambaza, recovering weapons and ammunition.
On 31 May 2021, Gwadar Port became fully operational, along with the availability of online booking for the delivery of goods.
On 4 August 2020, Pakistan released a new political map that for the first time showed the Islands of Churna and Astola.
On 4 October, an Azad Kashmir provisional government was declared in Lahore with Ghulam Nabi Gilkar as president under the assumed name "Mr. Anwar" and Sardar Ibrahim as the prime minister.
On 6 May 1961, the commission sent its draft to President Ayub Khan.
On 8 August, 33 members of the TTP, which the ISPR describes as Fitna al Khwarij, were killed by the security forces as they tried to cross into Sambaza across the border.
On 9 August 1977, 23 years after the Italian expedition, Ichiro Yoshizawa led the second successful ascent, with Ashraf Aman as the first native Pakistani climber.
On August 16, 2001, Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf inaugurated the 30-billion-rupee Greater Thal Canal project (GTC).
On February 2024, India completed the Shahpur Kandi Barrage, diverting approximately 1,150 cubic meters of water from the Ravi to irrigation projects in Indian-controlled areas.
On July 28, 2024, Japanese climber Naoko Watanabe became the first woman to summit K2 three times.
On July 7, they and 14 others were trapped by a storm at 7,480 m (24,540 ft).
On March 1, 2025, India officially stopped the flow of Ravi River water into Pakistan after 45 years of delays, marking a significant shift in the region's water dynamics.
On May 18, 2007, a MOU for rail cooperation was signed by Pakistan and Iran under which the line will be completed by December 2008.
On Pakistan's Republic Day on 23 March 1971, the first flag of Bangladesh was hoisted in many East Pakistani households.
On average, a little over half of the entire annual flow is received within the three months from July to September, when monsoonal rains combine with meltwater.
On its western bank is the town of Shahdara Bagh with the Tomb of Jahangir and the Tomb of Noor Jahan.
On reaching land, these winds rise because of the geographical relief, cooling adiabatically and leading to orographic rains.
On the Indian side, roads go only as far as the military base camp at Dzingrulma (35°09′59″N 77°12′58″E﻿ / ﻿35.1663°N 77.2162°E﻿ / 35.1663; 77.2162), 72 km from the head of the glacier.
On the Ravi River, the earliest project built was the Madhopur Headworks, in 1902.
On the Tibetan Plateau, Nanga Parbat is the westernmost peak of the Himalayas, whereas Namcha Barwa marks the east end.
On the contrary, Pakistan Forest Institute estimates it to be 5.1%.
On the independence of Pakistan, Makran became a district within the province of Balochistan, with the exception of an area of 800 km2 (310 sq mi) around Gwadar.
On the other hand the miraculous powers of Muhammadan saints were enough to attract the saint worshiping Hindus, to allegiance, if not to a total change of faith...
On the other hand, water pollution generation is increasing largely due to the growing economy and population, and an almost complete lack of water treatment.
On the other side of the Tsangpo, to the east, are the Kangri Garpo mountains.
On the southern flanks of Nanga Parbat and in Upper and Lower Dir Districts, rainfall is much heavier than further north because moist winds from the Arabian Sea are able to penetrate the region.
On the west face of Broad Peak and the south spur of K2, lamprophyre dikes, which consist of clinopyroxene and biotite-porphyritic vogesites and minettes, have intruded the K2 gneiss.
On the west it was separated from the North-West Frontier Province by the Indus, until it reached the border of Dera Ghazi Khan District, which was divided from Baluchistan by the Sulaiman Range.
On the western side the Saragallas retained, and still largely retain their habits.
Once Operation Searchlight and Operation Barisal commenced, Air Marshal Masud flew to West Pakistan, and unlike Admiral Ahsan, tried to stop the violence in East Pakistan.
Once they vanish, water supplies in Pakistan will be in peril.
One analyst estimated that the figure for Azad Kashmir was 25.1% in 2001.
One area that monsoons impact greatly is India.
One is via Astore and the other via Skardu.
One language that is unique to the Neelum Valley is the endangered Kundal Shahi.
One major drawback of traveling during the monsoon is that most wildlife sanctuaries are closed.
One more major tributary that joins the Ravi River near Basohli (J&K) is the Seva.
One night, Prince Saiful Maluk saw in a dream a lake and a fairy.
One of such polo tournament is held in Shandur each year and polo teams of Gilgit with Chitral participates.
One of the early Buddhist schools, the Mahāsāṃghika-Lokottaravāda, was prominent in the area of Bamiyan.
One of the early kings in Punjab was Porus, who fought the famous Battle of the Hydaspes against Alexander the Great.
One of the goals of the expedition was to accurately measure the height of the mountain using satellite navigation.
One of the greatest contributors to air pollution is industrial activity.
One of the most interesting features is a large square tank made of the flat rectangular bricks, which may have supplied water so that the fort could withstand a siege.
One of the most striking aspects of the Himalayan orogen is the lateral continuity of its major tectonic elements.
One of the organisations active in the territory and inside Pakistan is YFK-International Kashmir Lobby Group, an NGO that seeks better India-Pakistan relations through conflict resolution in Kashmir.
One of the proposals is a common climate fund for Himalayan nations.
One of the reasons theorized for the recent glacial retreat is chemical blasting, to construct camps and posts.
One of the victim's diaries read "our situation here is not quite safe from avalanches".
One of the world's largest ship-breaking yards is located on the coast.
One of their kings Shimuddin Chamisar had submitted to Iltutmish, the Sultan of Delhi, and was allowed to continue on as a vassal.
One of them is found at Taobutt and the nearby village of Karimabad (formerly known as Sutti) near the border with India.
One popular legend that highlights the strong Sufi presence in Sindh is that 125,000 Sufi saints and mystics are buried on Makli Hill near Thatta.
One reason give is the shortage of local bushes and plants that are used for preparing various materials (especially by the Jat villagers).
One suggestion is that in ancient days Jhelumabad was known as Jalham.
One third of the country was under water.
One to six participants can dance in pairs.
Only 40 Indus Valley sites have been discovered on the Indus and its tributaries.
Only July and August average more than 50 millimetres (1.97 in) of rainfall in the Karachi area; the remaining months are exceedingly dry with little rainfall.
Only July, August and September average more than 75 millimeters of rain in the Karachi area; the remaining months are rather dry.
Only about a third of the population has access to clean drinking water.
Only part of the northeast monsoon passing over the Bay of Bengal picks up moisture, causing rain in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu during the winter months.
Only six Bahai families are known to be living in Muzaffarabad with others living in rural areas.
Only some of these are under the conservation scope of International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).
Ora and Bazira (possibly Bazar) soon fell.
Organizations like the Pakistan Fashion Design Council in Lahore and the Fashion Pakistan Council in Karachi host events like PFDC Fashion Week and Fashion Pakistan Week.
Orient Airways later evolved into Pakistan International Airlines, whose first chairman was the East Pakistan-based industrialist Mirza Ahmad Ispahani.
Originally the Harnai route, although longer, was the one adopted for ordinary traffic, the Bolan loop being reserved for emergencies.
Other Mujahideen joined the Northern Alliance to oppose the Taliban rule.
Other Punjabi dialects, as well as other languages, are also spoken in major urban centres like Islamabad and Rawalpindi.
Other endemic or near-endemic herbivores include the Himalayan tahr, the takin, the Himalayan serow, and the Himalayan goral.
Other epithets include Himaraja (Sanskrit: हिमराज, lit.
Other football grounds include Qayyum Papa Stadium and Sadiq Shaheed Stadium.
Other high passes in Pakistan include the Lowari Pass at 10,200 feet, the Gomal Pass.
Other hot areas include Turbat and Dalbandin.
Other languages include Sindhi (3.81%), Saraiki (2.19%), Punjabi (0.59%), Urdu (0.53%) and others at (1.5%).
Other languages with significant numbers of speakers include Hindko (9.39%), Saraiki (3.17%) and Kohistani languages (2.45%).
Other local names have been suggested including Lamba Pahar ("Tall Mountain" in Urdu) and Dapsang, but these are not widely used.
Other major cities include Faisalabad, Rawalpindi, Gujranwala and Multan.
Other mammals in the Thar Desert include a subspecies of red fox (Vulpes vulpes pusilla) and the caracal, and a number of reptiles dwell there too.
Other members of the council are the president and the prime minister of Azad Kashmir (or an individual nominated by her/him) and 6 members of the AJK Legislative Assembly.
Other minor products include resin (a fluid in tissue of Chir pine plant that becomes solid on exposure to the air) and 'mazri' (used for making baskets).
Other notable minority ethnic groups include Kohistanis in Kohistan and Kho as well as Kalashas in Chitral.
Other peaks include the Andraj Mountain at 6,496 ft (1,980 m).
Other popular sports are football, cricket, volleyball (mostly play in winters) and other minor local sports.
Other prominent Muslims from Punjab who rose to nobility during the Mughal Era include Wazir Khan, Adina Beg Arain, and Shahbaz Khan Kamboh.
Other significant deep points are part of the Arabian Basin, which include a 5,358 metres (17,579 ft) deep point off the northern limit of Calrsberg Ridge.
Other sports like squash, polo, and traditional games are also enjoyed.
Other than the products mentioned above, Khusa (shoes) is a specialty of this area.
Other uses including thatching huts, building livestock shelters and creating household items such as baskets and dyes.
Others alleged to be involved in the slave trade were feudal lords such as Ameer Sheer Ali.
Others have migrated due to lack of potable drinking water.
Outside Quetta, the resource extraction infrastructure of the province is gradually developing but still lags far behind other parts of Pakistan.
Outside of winter, temperatures in central Khyber Pakhtunkhwa are not so hot as in Chitral.
Over 110 villages were also established by the TDA over its lifespan which enabled the settlement of over 31377 families of refugees and migrants in the Thal Desert.
Over 140 aftershocks were recorded, many of at least 4.0 on the Richter scale, and 21 registering at over 5.0 on the Richter scale.
Over 2,000 Siberian ibex, widely distributed and abundant in the park but absent from neighbouring China, are also present here.
Over 400 Harappan sites had been listed in Cholistan in the 1970s, with a further 37 added in the 1990s.
Over 93,000 personnel, including Lt. General Niazi and Admiral Shariff, were taken as prisoners of war.
Over India, a subtropical westerly jet develops in the winter season and is replaced by the tropical easterly jet in the summer season.
Over the Indo-Gangetic plains, they occasionally bring cold wave conditions and dense fog.
Over the last 15 Ma, the ramp has gradually moved south due to duplexing, accretion, and tectonic undercutting.
Over the last couple years these health impacts have gotten increasingly worse and more common.
Over the months following independence, Pakistan absorbed these regions into its territory.
Over the years factories on the banks of the Indus River have increased levels of water pollution in the river and the atmosphere around it.
Over the years, the number of cars on Pakistani roads has tripled[as of?].
Over time, as languages evolved and adapted, "giri" transformed into "gir" in Gujarati and further into "kir" in Sindhi.
Over time, the majority of the population in Sindh converted to Islam, especially in rural areas.
Overall 127 cities of the country, have a population of over 100,000.
Overseeing the Joint Staff Headquarters, they coordinate inter-service cooperation and joint military missions.
Owing to its strategic location, Taxila has changed hands many times over the centuries, with many polities vying for its control.
P. cineraria wood is reported to contain high calorific value and provide high-quality fuel wood.
PML (N) members noted that Sarhad was a good name for the province but, if a change was needed, then it should be named Khyber or Abasin.
PSA International was the highest bidder for the Gwadar Port, after its competitor DP World withdrew from the bidding process.
PSA also did not invest the agreed $550 million into the port, on account of the poor security situation in Balochistan in the period between 2007 and 2013.
Paired with the surging inflation and the ongoing political turbulence in the country, this situation has the potential to create a catastrophic scenario.
Pak-China Economic Corridor Secretariat was inaugurated in Islamabad on August 27, 2013.
Pakistan International Airlines also offers regular flights of a Boeing 737 between Skardu and Islamabad.
Pakistan International Airlines has regular flights to and from the other major cities of Pakistan including Islamabad, Gwadar, Karachi, Lahore and Peshawar.
Pakistan International Airlines used to fly a Fokker F27 Friendship daily between Gilgit Airport and Benazir Bhutto International Airport.
Pakistan Railways also operate special trains for various occasions.
Pakistan Railways carry 65 million passengers annually and daily operate 228 mail, express and passenger trains.
Pakistan Railways provides an important mode of transportation in Pakistan, catering to the large-scale movement of people and freight.
Pakistan Television established its second studio in Dacca after Lahore in 1965.
Pakistan actively participates in the United Nations with a Permanent Representative representing its positions in international politics.
Pakistan allocates 2.3% of its GDP to education, among the lowest in South Asia.
Pakistan also received one-time financial compensation for the loss of water from the eastern rivers.
Pakistan also sent 5,000 troops as part of a US-led coalition for the defense of Saudi Arabia during the Gulf War.
Pakistan and Bangladesh have experienced strained relations, particularly under the Awami League governments led by Sheikh Hasina, driven by her pro-India stance and historical grievances.
Pakistan boasts 2567 km of motorways and approximately 263,942 km of highways, which handle 92% of passengers and 96% of freight traffic.
Pakistan boasts numerous renowned folk singers, and the arrival of Afghan refugees in western provinces has sparked interest in Pashto music, despite occasional intolerance.
Pakistan business community agreed to utilise Gwadar Port for Afghan transit trade.
Pakistan chose to remain neutral during Operation Decisive Storm, refraining from sending military support to Saudi Arabia in its offensive against Yemen.
Pakistan constructed the Tarbela Dam near Rawalpindi – standing 2,743 metres (9,000 ft) long and 143 metres (470 ft) high, with an 80-kilometre (50 mi) long reservoir.
Pakistan contains a majority of the people living in the Indus Basin (around 61% of total) most of whom heavily depend on its rivers for their water needs.
Pakistan controls the glacial valleys immediately west of the Saltoro Ridge.
Pakistan does not have formal diplomatic relations with Israel; nonetheless, an exchange occurred between the two countries in 2005, with Turkey acting as an intermediary.
Pakistan ended its dominion status and adopted a republican constitution in 1956, which proclaimed an Islamic republic.
Pakistan expects to produce 10,000 megawatts of renewable energy by 2025.
Pakistan facilitated peace talks to help end the conflict.
Pakistan geologically overlaps both the Eurasian and Indian tectonic plates.
Pakistan had a 2018 Forest Landscape Integrity Index mean score of 7.42/10, ranking it 41st globally out of 172 countries.
Pakistan had a population of 241,499,431 according to the final results of the 2023 census.
Pakistan had the fifth-largest Hindu population globally in 2010.
Pakistan has been an active participant in UN peacekeeping missions, playing a major role in operations like the rescue mission in Mogadishu, Somalia, in 1993.
Pakistan has celebrated Kashmir Solidarity Day on 5 February of each year since 1990 as a day of protest against India's sovereignty over its State of Jammu and Kashmir.
Pakistan has deployed its military in some Arab countries, providing defense, training, and advisory roles.
Pakistan has extensive energy resources, including fairly sizable natural gas reserves, petroleum oil reserves, coal fields and large hydropower potential.
Pakistan has hosted various international events, including Cricket and Hockey World Cups and Asian Games.
Pakistan has less than 6% total forest area.
Pakistan holds the dubious distinction of being the world's third-most polluted country when it comes to air quality, compounding its environmental challenges.
Pakistan hosts four hot deserts which were historically forests.
Pakistan hosts one of the world's largest refugee populations.
Pakistan inherited the territory comprising its current provinces from India following the Partition of India on 14 August 1947.
Pakistan is a developing country, and part of the Next Eleven, poised to become one of the world's largest economies in the 21st century, alongside the BRIC countries.
Pakistan is a diverse society with estimates suggesting it has between 75 and 85 languages.
Pakistan is a member of the Commonwealth of Nations, SAARC, ECO, and the G20 developing nations.
Pakistan is a party to several international agreements related to environment and climate.
Pakistan is also thought to have the world's fourth-largest refugee population, estimated at 1.4 million in mid-2021 by the UNHCR.
Pakistan is bordered by Iran to the west, Afghanistan to the northwest , India to the east, and the Arabian sea to the south.
Pakistan is classified as a water stressed nation by the World Bank.
Pakistan is considered a middle power nation, with the world's seventh-largest standing armed forces.
Pakistan is considering to develop wind turbines to fulfill the demand for electricity.
Pakistan is designated as an "Iron Brother" by China, emphasizing the significance of their close and supportive relationship.
Pakistan is divided into three major geographic areas: the northern highlands, the Indus River plain, and the Balochistan Plateau.
Pakistan is facing a significant challenge as its natural resources and ecosystems encounter increasing pollution and strain.
Pakistan is highly vulnerable to climate change.
Pakistan is home to many mountains above 7,000 metres (22,970 ft).
Pakistan is home to many natural and man-made lakes and reservoirs.
Pakistan is one of the most seismically active countries in the world, being crossed by several major faults.
Pakistan is subject to frequent earthquakes which are often severe (especially in north and west) and severe flooding along the Indus after heavy rains (July and August).
Pakistan is the 33rd-largest country by area.
Pakistan is the sole Muslim nation active in Antarctica research, maintaining its Jinnah Antarctic Research Station since 1992.
Pakistan is the world's fifth–most populous country.
Pakistan joined the convention on 23 November 1976.
Pakistan largest river is known as the Indus River which flows from Tibet/China and enters Pakistan through Gilgit Baltistan.
Pakistan lies in the temperate zone, immediately above the tropic of cancer.
Pakistan lost 353 soldiers in various operations recorded between 2003 and 2010 near Siachen, including 140 Pakistanis killed in the 2012 Gayari Sector avalanche.
Pakistan maintains a policy of Full spectrum deterrence, considering its nuclear program vital for deterring foreign aggression.
Pakistan now boasts a vast network of domestic, privately owned 24-hour electronic news media and cable television channels.
Pakistan operates as a democratic parliamentary federal republic, with Islam designated as the state religion.
Pakistan produced 1,135 megawatts of renewable energy for the month of October 2016.
Pakistan provided refuge to millions of displaced Afghans after the Soviet invasion and supported the Afghan mujahideen in their efforts to expel Soviet forces from Afghanistan.
Pakistan provided support to Saudi Arabia during the Gulf War.
Pakistan ranked 56th on the 2006 A.T. Kearney/FP Globalization Index due to increasing globalization.
Pakistan ranked last (148th of 148 countries) on the Global Gender Gap Index, with a gender parity score of 56.7%, reflecting one of the lowest levels of gender equality globally.
Pakistan ranks 10th globally for remittances sent home.
Pakistan ranks fifth in cotton production, self-sufficient in sugarcane, and the fourth-largest milk producer globally.
Pakistan ranks second globally in Muslim population, and is home to 10.5% of the world's Muslims.
Pakistan scored 27 out of 100 on the Corruption Perceptions Index in 2024, ranking 135th out of 180 countries in the assessment of perceived public-sector corruption.
Pakistan shares its borders with four neighboring countries—People's Republic of China, Afghanistan, India, and Iran—while Tajikistan is separated by the narrow Wakhan Corridor.
Pakistan vigorously advocated for self-determination among Muslims globally.
Pakistan was among the first nations to establish formal diplomatic ties with China, forging a strong relationship since China's 1962 conflict with India, culminating in a special bond.
Pakistan was lauded as the top nation for infrastructure development in South Asia during the 2016 annual meetings of the IMF and World Bank.
Pakistan was ranked 99th in the Global Innovation Index by 2025.
Pakistan was the 5th-largest recipient and importer of arms between 2019 and 2023.
Pakistan witnessed a fourfold increase in its scientific productivity in the past decade surging from approximately 2,000 articles per year in 2006 to more than 9,000 articles in 2015.
Pakistan – sovereign country located in South Asia.
Pakistan's Billion Tree Tsunami restores 350,000 hectares of forests and degraded land to surpass its Bonn Challenge commitment.
Pakistan's IT sector is one of the fastest-growing, ranked 110th for ICT development by the World Economic Forum.
Pakistan's Nuclear Energy Vision 2050 targets a capacity of 40,000 MWe, with 8,900 MWe expected by 2030.
Pakistan's desire for an international organization of Muslim countries was fulfilled in the 1970s when the Organization of Islamic Conference (OIC) was formed.
Pakistan's diverse geography and climate host a wide array of wildlife.
Pakistan's economic growth varied over time, with slow progress during democratic transitions but robust expansion under martial law, lacking sustainable foundations.
Pakistan's economy ranks 27th globally by purchasing power parity (PPP) and 42nd by nominal GDP.
Pakistan's fashion industry has thrived, blending traditional and modern styles to create a unique cultural identity.
Pakistan's fauna mirrors its diverse climate.
Pakistan's fifth largest city, Hyderabad, lies about 130 miles north of the mouths of the Indus.
Pakistan's foreign policy advisor Sartaj Aziz has further signalled that Pakistan may link the Gwadar port to Chabahar via rail.
Pakistan's greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are less than 1% of the world total, and GHG emissions per person, at 2 tonnes per year, are less than half the global average.
Pakistan's inaugural fashion week took place in November 2009.
Pakistan's largest city, Karachi, which is also the country's industrial center, is more humid than Islamabad but gets significantly lesser rainfall.
Pakistan's middle class is estimated to be around 40–50 million people, representing 15–20 per cent of the population.
Pakistan's political agent, Khan Mohammad Alam Khan, arrived on 16 November and took over the administration of Gilgit.
Pakistan's political history since independence has been characterized by periods of significant economic and military growth as well as those of political and economic instability.
Pakistan's primary intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), was established within a year of Pakistan's independence in 1947.
Pakistan's rail network is also undergoing expansion in recent years.
Pakistan's relations with Iran have been strained by sectarian tensions, with both Iran and Saudi Arabia using Pakistan as a battleground for their proxy sectarian war.
Pakistan's support for the Sunni Taliban in Afghanistan challenged Shia-led Iran, which opposed a Taliban-controlled Afghanistan.
Pakistan's vast natural commodity production and 10th-largest labour market, along with a US$19.9 billion contribution from its 7-million-strong diaspora in 2015–16, position it significantly.
Pakistan,[f] officially the Islamic Republic of Pakistan,[g] is a country in South Asia.
Pakistani Punjab produces 68% of Pakistan's foodgrain production.
Pakistani fishermen in the delta have increasingly faced detention for accidentally straying over into Indian waters while fishing.
Pakistani media has been instrumental in exposing corruption.
Pakistani music encompasses diverse forms, from provincial folk music and traditional styles like Qawwali and Ghazal Gayaki to modern fusions of traditional and western music.
Pakistani officials subsequently appointed Sardar Ibrahim as the president of the provisional government.
Pakistani philosophy has been shaped by influences from British and American philosophy, with notable figures like M. M. Sharif contributing to its development.
Pakistani special forces assisted Saudi forces in Mecca during the Grand Mosque Seizure.
Pakistani theoretical physicist Abdus Salam won a Nobel Prize in Physics for his work on the electroweak interaction.
Pakistanis wear a variety of fabrics like silk, chiffon, and cotton.
Palla fish (Tenualosa ilisha) of the river is a delicacy for people living along the river.
Pangong Tso, which is spread across the border between India and China, at the far western end of Tibet, is among the largest with a surface area of 700 km2 (270 sq mi).
Parachinar is ranked the fourth-coldest location in Pakistan by the weather charts website "Climate-Charts" that uses data available from the World Meteorological Organization.
Parachinar is the administrative headquarter of Kurram valley.
Paro Taktsang is the holy place where Buddhism started in Bhutan.
Part of the Battle of the Ten Kings was fought on a river, which according to Yaska (Nirukta 9.26) refers to the Ravi river at Punjab.
Parvati assumed the form of a river in the netherworld.
Pashto folk music is popular in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and has a rich tradition going back hundreds of years.
Pashto was the predominant language, spoken by 99.19% of the population.
Pashto, of the Iranian subgroup and the majority language in the neighbouring province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, is spoken in two villages, both situated on the Line of Control.
Passenger earnings comprise 50% of the total revenue.
Passenger services through the pass have been intermittent, with the Khyber Steam Safari, a joint venture between a private company and Pakistan Railways, operating in the 1990s.
Peaks in the western Hindu Kush rise to over 5,100 m (16,700 ft) and stretch between Darra-ye Sekari and the Shibar Pass in the west and the Khawak Pass in the east.
People from various parts of the world come to see the Pushkar ka Mela (Pushkar Fair) and oases.
People had no right to legal representation or appeal.
People in the Skardu district are mostly Shia, while Diamir and Astore districts have Sunni majorities.
People of the region have recounted their historical traditions down the generations.
People opened their homes to those displaced.
Perhaps, Pakistan would never have imagined that its alliance with China would sink into huge debt.
Peshawar is the capital and largest city of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Peshawar's Bus Rapid Transit, inaugurated in August 2020, marks the fourth BRT system in Pakistan.
Pesticides used for pest control in agricultural operations can also contaminate surface as well as ground-water resources.
Petroleum source rocks range in age from Eocambrian through Miocene and are dominated by type II and type III kerogens.
Petroleum systems in the Kohat-Potwar province exist due to continental collision between the Indian passive continental margin and the Eurasian Plate.
Phartho (hog deer) and wild bear occur, particularly in the central inundation belt.
Piotrowski fell to his death as the two were descending.
Places like Kerala and the Western Ghats get a large number of tourists, both local and foreigners, during the monsoon season.
Plans for construction of the port were not realised until 2007, when the port was inaugurated by Pervez Musharraf after four years of construction, at a cost of $248 million.
Plants from the forests have been used for millennia to treat conditions ranging from simple coughs to snake bites.
Popular Sufi poets like Shah Abdul Latif and Bulleh Shah are revered.
Port of Salalah in Salalah, Oman is also a major port in the area.
Porus refused to surrender and wandered about atop an elephant, until he was wounded and his force routed.
Post-1971, Marxist thought gained prominence in Pakistani philosophy through figures like Jalaludin Abdur Rahim.
Post-colonial identity shines through modern landmarks like the Faisal Mosque, Minar-e-Pakistan, and Mazar-e-Quaid.
Potable groundwater is also rare in the Thar Desert.
Potable water is mostly available only deep underground.
Potential scarcity of water not only threatens Pakistan's economy but also poses a serious threat to the lives of millions of Pakistanis.
Pothohar Plateau is bounded on the east by the Jhelum River, on the west by the Indus River, on the north by the Kala Chitta Range and the Margalla Hills, and on the south by the Salt Range.
Precipitation during the winter season has great importance in agriculture, particularly for the rabi crops.
Precipitation then occurs on the windward side of the highlands because of adiabatic cooling and condensation of the moist rising air.
Preliminary findings of a survey by Pakistan Meteorological Department in 2007 revealed that the Siachen glacier has been retreating for the past 30 years and is melting at an alarming rate.
Presently, Pakistan operates a multi-party parliamentary system, with distinct checks and balances among government branches.
President Zia died in a plane crash in 1988, and Benazir Bhutto, daughter of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, was elected as the country's first female Prime Minister.
President of Pakistan Asif Ali Zardari also visited an area near the Siachen Glacier called Gayari Sector during 2012 with Pakistan Army Chief Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani.
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh became the first Indian Prime Minister to visit the area, during which he called for a peaceful resolution of the problem.
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif said that a high-speed rail network will be built which will connect Peshawar to Karachi via all major cities of Pakistan during his visit to China in June 2016.
Princes Agha Abdul Karim Baloch and Muhammad Rahim refused to lay down arms, leading the Dosht-e Jhalawan in unconventional attacks on the army until 1950.
Prior to 1984, neither country had any military forces in this area.
Prior to COPHC, the port was operated by the Port of Singapore Authority.
Prior to partition, it irrigated 335,000 hectares of land in Gurdaspur, Amritsar and Lahore districts.
Prior to the 11th century, the Sutlej river actually did not connect with the Indus river but rather flowed into the Hakra or Ghaggar river in Bikaner using one or more old channels.
Prior to the Kushan era, the Khyber Pass was not a widely used trade route.
Prior to the partition of India, other biradaris including the Khatris, Mohyal Brahmins, and Aroras were also present in large numbers throughout the region.
Private tube wells and High Yielding Varieties (HYVs) further augmented crop yields.
Private yellow and white minivans have services throughout cities in Pakistan and get commuters from one point of the city to the other at a low cost.
Progress was made, but more slowly than before due to heavy snowfall.
Prominent "antagonist groups" have mushroomed protesting the absence of civic rights and democracy.
Protection and conservation of the environment of Pakistan was included in the concurrent constitution of 1973.
Protests arose among the locals of the Hazara division due to this name change, as they began to demand their own province.
Punjab (/pʌnˈdʒɑːb/ pun-JAHB; Punjabi, Urdu: پنجاب, pronounced [pəɲˈd͡ʒaːb] ⓘ) is a province of Pakistan.
Punjab also contains part of the Thal and Cholistan deserts.
Punjab borders Jammu and Kashmir in the north, and the Indian states of Punjab and Rajasthan to the east.
Punjab emerged as an important agricultural region, especially following the Green Revolution during the mid-1960s to the mid-1970s, has been described as the "breadbasket of both India and Pakistan".
Punjab has the highest Human Development Index out of all of Pakistan's provinces at 0.550.
Punjab has the largest economy in Pakistan, contributing most to the national GDP.
Punjab has the lowest poverty rates in Pakistan, although a divide is present between the northern and southern parts of the province.
Punjab is Pakistan's most industrialised province, with the industrial sector comprising 24 per cent of the province's gross domestic product.
Punjab is Pakistan's second largest province by area after Balochistan with an area of 205,344 square kilometres (79,284 square miles).
Punjab is also one of the most urbanised regions of South Asia, with approximately 40 per cent of its population being concentrated in urban areas.
Punjab is contemplating to construct 206 MW Shahpurkandi dam project hydro electric project on the Ravi River between Ranjitsagar dam and Madhopur head works.
Punjab is the most fertile province of the country as the Indus River and its four major tributaries Ravi, Jhelum, Chenab, and Sutlej flow through it.
Punjab state contains the holy Sikh cities of Amritsar, Anandpur Sahib, Tarn Taran Sahib, Fatehgarh Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib.
Punjab was the powerbase of Khizr Khan and his successors as the bulk of the Delhi army during their reigns came from Multan and Dipalpur.
Punjab's history is a tapestry of conflict, marked by the rise of indigenous dynasties and empires.
Punjab's region temperature ranges from −2° to 45 °C, but can reach 50 °C (122 °F) in summer and can touch down to −10 °C in winter.
Punjab, Sindh, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Balochistan and the Islamabad Capital Territory.
Punjab, the biggest province of Pakistan, has shown commitment to tackle challenges related to Climate Change under the Climate Change Activity Plan and Punjab Climate Change Strategy.
Punjabi Muslims are the majority in West Punjab (Pakistan), while Punjabi Sikhs are the majority in East Punjab (India).
Punjabi Muslims form majority of the province.
Punjabis are the native people of Pothohar, speaking Punjabi in forms of various dialects and Urdu.
Pyala Lake (Jalkad) Pyala Lake is a round shape lake located in Jalkhand, Kaghan Valley, Mansehra District of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Pyala Lake is a tourist attraction due to its bowl-shaped location atop a mountain and its natural setting.
Qiangtang, a geological region in what is today northern Tibet, had done so in Late Triassic (237–201 Mya).
Quantum of usage claimed shall be verified by the Tribunal referred to in paragraph 9.2 below.
Quetta Railway Station is one of the highest railway stations in Pakistan at 1,676 metres (5,499 feet) above sea level.
Quetta has a cold semi-arid climate (Köppen BSk) with a significant variation between summer and winter temperatures.
Quetta is at an average elevation of 1,680 metres (5,510 feet) above sea level, making it Pakistan's highest-altitude major city.
Quetta is on the western side of Pakistan and is connected to the rest of the country by a network of roads, railways and its international airport close to its centre.
Quetta is one of the most ethnically diverse cities in the country.
Quetta is the largest district of Balochistan by population with a total population of 2,275,699 at the 2017 census.
Quetta serves as the learning centre for the Balochistan province.
Quetta was formerly known as Shalkot (Pashto: ښالکوټ, Urdu: شالکوٹ).
Quetta[a] is the capital and largest city of the Pakistani province of Balochistan.
Rahmat Ali's concept of Pakistan only related to the northwestern area of the Indian subcontinent.
Rail services in Pakistan are provided by the state-run Pakistan Railways, under the supervision of the Ministry of Railways.
Railways and Airways were developed during the British Raj.
Rainfall is 100 to 500 mm (4 to 20 in) per year, almost all of it between June and September.
Rainfall varies from as little as less than 10 inches a year to over 150 inches a year, in various parts of the nation.
Rainfall varies greatly from year to year, with patterns of alternate flooding and drought common.
Rainy branches Sarona, Samutri and Veera carry rainy water into it.
Rakoncaj was a member of the 1983 Italian expedition led by Francesco Santon, which made the second successful ascent of the North Ridge (31 July 1983).
Ranjit Singh invaded Peshawar in 1818 and captured it from the Durrani Empire.
Rare animals include the snow leopard and the blind Indus river dolphin, of which there are believed to be about 1,816 remaining, protected at the Indus Dolphin Reserve in Sindh.
Rather than re-appointing Jehandad Khan of Khattak, Ranjit Singh selected Yar Muhammad Khan to once again rule the region.
Rawat Fort is an early 16th century fort near the city of Rawalpindi.
Recent studies by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology confirmed that the Arabian Sea is warming monotonously; it possibly is due to global warming.
Recently Korangi has been upgraded to the status of the sixth district of Karachi.
Recently, the Radio Cab was introduced in Pakistan, which allows riders to call a toll-free number to get in touch with the closest taxi stand.
Recommendations from the National Conservation Strategy Report are incorporated in the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1993–98).
References to a land of five rivers may be found in the Mahabharata, in which one of the regions is named as Panchanada (Sanskrit: पञ्चनद, romanized: pañca-nada, lit.
Reforms in 2013 mandated Chinese language courses in Sindh, reflecting China's growing influence.
Regional and traditional dress remain significant symbols of native tradition, evolving into both modern and purer forms.
Relations with Russia have improved since the end of the Cold War, but Pakistan's relationship with the United States has been "on-and-off".
Religious tensions rose in Sindh over the Sukkur Manzilgah issue where Muslims and Hindus disputed over an abandoned mosque in proximity to an area sacred to Hindus.
Research and Development Foundation, a Pakistani NGO, has also started implementing solar desalination in six villages in Thatta with funding from Oxfam.
Research conducted years after the earthquake found that many survivors were still experiencing symptoms of PTSD, depression, anxiety disorders.
Research is being done by scientists of The Energy and Resources Institute, to find ways to successfully dispose of the garbage generated at the glacier using scientific means.
Residents of the nearby Mandi Bahauddin district believe that their tehsil, the town of Phalia, is named after Alexander's horse, saying that the name Phalia was a distortion of Bucephala.
Resource-managed man-made forests like Changa Manga, Kamalia plantation and Chichawatni plantation have also been planted to serve purpose and conserve forests.
Respiratory infections were notably prevalent, exacerbated by the cold weather in the region, and poor insulation in camps.
Rice is also common, served plain, spiced, or in sweet dishes.
Richard Bulliet also proposes that the area north of Hindu Kush was center of a new sect that had spread as far as Kurdistan, remaining in existence until the Abbasid times.
Ride-hailing services such as Uber and Careem are also available.
Ridges like the Mid-Atlantic ridge form at a divergent plate boundary.
Riparian zone along the river Indus have been managed to avoid excess flooding.
Rising temperatures and receding glaciers left a large depression where glaciers once stood.
Rohtas Fort is a 16th-century fortress located near the city of Jhelum in the Punjab province of Pakistan.
Rohtas Fort was never taken by force, and it has remained remarkably intact.
Ropar Wetland in Punjab state is located on the Sutlej river basin.
Roughly in the middle of the Karakoram range is the Karakoram Pass, which was part of a now unused trade route between Ladakh and Yarkand.
Rudyard Kipling refers to the Karakoram mountain range in his novel Kim, which was first published in 1900.
Ruins of an ancient Hindu temple of the Hindu goddess Kali are located on the island.
Rulers of Gilgit formed an alliance with the Tang Chinese, and held back the Arabs with their help.
Runa Laila was Pakistan's first pop star and became popular in India as well.
Said shortening is a product of the significant ongoing seismic activity.
Saiful Muluk (Urdu: جھیل سیف الملوک) is a mountainous lake in northern Pakistan, located at the northern end of the Kaghan Valley, near the town of Naran in the Saiful Muluk National Park.
Saiful Muluk National Park, with Lake Saiful Muluk, is adjacent to Lulusar-Dodipat National Park in the Kaghan Valley region.
Saiful Muluk is located in the Mansehra District of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, about 9 kilometres (5.6 mi) north of Naran, in the northern part of the Kaghan Valley.
Saiful Muluk was formed by glacial moraines that blocked the water of the stream passing through the valley.
Sakesar (1525 m) in the Salt Range in Khushab District is the highest peak of the region.
Salampur village, located near Saidu Sharif, is a principle region in Pakistan for the manufacture of sheets and shawls.
Salt water was drained out and an embankment was constructed around the lake which was fed with fresh water through a canal.
Sambak Sir Lake Nestled in the inner mountain ranges of the Western Himalayas, It is a stunning glacial lake that sits at an altitude of 3,300 meters.
Same year the former State Subject law was abolished in Gilgit Baltistan, and Pakistanis from other areas could buy land and settle.
Sand dunes in this area reach over 100 meters in height.
Sand-mining is a possible cause for some of the recent shifts in the river's course.
Sandia National Laboratories organised conferences where military experts and environmentalists from both India and Pakistan and also from other countries were invited to present joint papers.
Sangroba and Hadmela were left far behind and as the Turis receded the Watizai Zaimushts gradually pushed in, until all that was left was a settlement at and about Alizai.
Sarang Khan Gakhar was the chief of the Gakhars, who was made ruler of Pothohar Plateau in 1520 by the Mughal emperor Babur for his submission to the Mughals.
Sarang Khan was aided by the servants of Malik Mardan Bhatti, a former governor of Multan and the grandfather of Khizr Khan by adoption.
Sat Sari Mala Lake The name "Sat Sri Mala" refers to a chain of seven alpine lakes in the LDNP, situated at an altitude of 3,050 meters in the inner mountain ranges of the Western Himalayas.
Satpara Lake also spelled Sadpara Lake (Urdu: سدپارہ جھیل) is a natural lake near Skardu in the Gilgit-Baltistan region of Pakistan.
Satpara Lake is situated at an elevation of 2,600 metres (8,500 ft) above sea level and spans an area of 4 square kilometres (1.5 sq mi).
Saudi Arabia also holds importance in Pakistan's foreign relations.
Saudi Arabia has promised to build US$10 billion oil refinery at Gwadar Port in 2019.
Saudi Arabia is the largest source of remittances, contributing $5.9 billion as of 2016[update].
Scientific research is integral to Pakistani universities, national laboratories, science parks, and the industry.
Scientists know less about ocean ridges than they do the planets of the Solar System.
Sea level rise along the Karachi coast is estimated at 1.1 mm per year (mm/year) for the period 1856–2000 according to the National Institute of Oceanography, Pakistan.
Sebuk Tigin, however, defeated him, and he was forced to pay an indemnity.
Sections of a road and pavement in a major route in Muzaffarabad collapsed.
Security in Gilgit-Baltistan is provided by the Gilgit-Baltistan Police, the Gilgit Baltistan Scouts (a paramilitary force), and the Northern Light Infantry (part of the Pakistani Army).
Sediment clogging from poor maintenance of canals has affected agricultural production and vegetation on numerous occasions.
See ongoing geologic studies section below.
See photos taken only three months apart in the Western Ghats.
Seeking alternative food sources, snow leopards and other predators attack local farmers' livestock.
Seen from afar, it resembles a large, tall statue of a woman.
Seleucus I Nicator ceded the satrapies, including those in Baluchistan to the expanding Mauryan Empire.
Seleucus was defeated and the lands of Aria, Arachosia, Gandhara, and Gedrosia were ceded to the Mauryans in exchange for a matrimonial alliance and 500 elephants.
Senator Musadik Masood Malik is in charge of the ministry with the status of a Federal Minister.
Serene Air is the only other airline in Pakistan that owns wide-body aircraft with three Airbus A330s.
Services for Hyderabad and Faisalabad are now being set up.
Seven natural gas fields were tapped in the province.
Seven people were killed and 100 injured in protests on 11 April 2011.
Several East Pakistanis were awarded the Sitara-e-Imtiaz and the Pride of Performance.
Several cement plants and a marble factory are also located there.
Several glaciers also lie in the park through which several springs make their way and ultimately form a stream which runs 18 kilometres.
Several languages are spoken natively in the district.
Several languages closely related to Punjabi are spoken in the various parts of the region.
Several large passes cut the ranges along the border with Afghanistan.
Several major development projects, including the construction of a new deep-sea port at the strategically important town of Gwadar, are in progress in Balochistan.
Several nappes, termed the "North Himalayan Nappes", have also been described within this unit.
Several other bridges in the Jhelum Valley (Kashmir) were also damaged.
Several other scholars believe the name to be a corruption of Hindu Koh ('mountains of India').
Several places in the Himalayas are of religious significance in Buddhism, Jainism, Sikhism, Islam and Hinduism.
Several princely states within the boundaries of the region were allowed to maintain their autonomy under the terms of maintaining friendly ties with the British.
Shabnam was a leading actress from East Pakistan.
Shah Husayn successfully repulsed attempted invasion by the Lodis led by Tatar Khan and Barbak Shah, as well as his daughter Zeerak Rumman.
Shah Shujah was then himself proclaimed king in 1803, and recaptured Peshawar while Mahmud Shah was imprisoned at Bala Hissar fort until his eventual escape.
Sheikh Mujib-ur-Rahman made a declaration of independence at Dacca on 26 March 1971.
Sheosar Lake (Urdu: شیوسر جھیل) is an alpine lake situated at the western end of Deosai National Park, Gilgit-Baltistan, Pakistan.
Shepherds along with their cattle started migrating from water-scarce areas.
Shigar River (Urdu: دریائے شگر) is located in the mountainous Baltistan region of northern Pakistan.
Shina, which like Kashmiri belongs to the broad Dardic group, is present in two distinct varieties spoken altogether in three villages.
Short films such as Green Election Campaign and Stop are a part of Clean Green Pakistan Effort.
Sial state was annexed by Sikh Empire and Ahmad Khan Sial was awarded a Jagir by Ranjit Singh.
Sial state was established by the 13 Sial Chief Nawab Walidad Khan Sial in 1723.
Sialkot District in the prosperous northern part of the province has a poverty rate of 5.63%, while Rajanpur District in the poorer south has a poverty rate of 60.05%.
Significant bathymetric surveys were also conducted by the Soviet Union during the 1960s.
Significant excavation has since been conducted at the site of the city, which was designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1980.
Significant features in the northern Arabian Sea include the Indus Fan, the second largest fan system in the world.
Significantly higher humidity when the monsoon is active means that heat discomfort can be greater.
Sikh Empire invaded Jhang multiple times from 1801 to 1816.
Sikhism, founded by Guru Nanak is the main religion practised in the post-1966 Indian Punjab state.
Sikhs under Ranjit Singh captured the Khyber Pass in 1837, with the Sikh general Hari Singh Nalwa constructing the Jamrud Fort to safeguard the pass.
Similar ordinances are now being considered in other provinces of Pakistan.
Similar to the mountains, the communities living near the Himalayas are experiencing climate change and its negative impacts significantly more than other parts of the world.
Similarly, Pakistan has exclusive use of the western rivers Jhelum, Chenab, and Indus but with some stipulations for the development of projects on these rivers in India.
Similarly, the building and transport infrastructure put in place today should meet the design needs of the future.
Similarly, the burst of the northeast monsoon refers to an abrupt increase in the mean daily rainfall over the affected regions.
Simli Reserved Forest and Noorpur Reserved Forest) and wetland areas (including Ucchali, Jahlar and Khabbiki lakes).
Simultaneously, East Bengal was redesignated as East Pakistan, with Dacca serving as its provincial capital.
Since 1877, when the Quetta agency was founded, the pass was secured by the British Indian Army from militias of Baloch tribesmen (chiefly Marris).
Since 1947, Pakistan has been involved in four conventional wars with India.
Since 1950s, the South Asian summer monsoon has been exhibiting large changes, especially in terms of droughts and floods.
Since 1972, Balochistan's gross income has grown in size by 2.7 times.
Since 1989, thousands of Kashmiri Muslim refugees fled to Pakistan, alleging rape and forced displacement by Indian soldiers.
Since 1994, the water flow has decreased as Punjab has been allocated a higher share of the water.
Since 2000, however, the government has taken a comprehensive initiative to modernize the existing bus fleets and minimally impact the environment.
Since 2017, a cabinet-level ministry has led much of that capacity.
Since 31 March 1970, after the 10-year moratorium, India has secured full rights for use of the waters of the three rivers allocated to it.
Since 9/11, Pakistan has been a US ally on counterterrorism, but their relationship has been strained due to diverging interests and mistrust during the 20-year war and terrorism issues.
Since Partition, the language varieties on either side of the Line of Control have diverged in a number of ways.
Since Punjab had unilaterally exited from the earlier water sharing agreements, J & K state refused the project construction.
Since September 2007, India has opened up limited mountaineering and trekking expeditions to the area.
Since cold air from the Siberian High loses its chilling capacity upon crossing the vast Karakoram and Himalaya ranges, winters in central Khyber Pakhtunkhwa are somewhat milder than in Chitral.
Since independence due to the partition of India, urbanisation has surged for various reasons.
Since independence, Pakistan has aimed to maintain an independent foreign policy.
Since it lies in the centre of tectonic plates, Pakistan has been vulnerable to a number of deadly earthquakes.
Since it was part of the ancient Silk Road, it has been a vital trade route between Central Asia and the Indian subcontinent and a strategic military choke point for various states that controlled it.
Since so many people use medicinal plants as their only source of healing in the Himalayas, the plants are an important source of income.
Since the 1940s, dams, barrages and irrigation works have been constructed on the river Indus.
Since the 1940s, dams, barrages and irrigation works have been constructed on the river.
Since the 1940s, the delta has received less water as a result of large-scale irrigation works capturing large proportions of the Indus' flow before it reaches the delta.
Since the 1970s, the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) also enjoyed considerable support in the province due to its socialist agenda.
Since the 1990s, the river has experienced substantial droughts in summer.
Since the Great Famine of 1876–1878 in India, various attempts have been made to predict monsoon rainfall.
Since the early days of the Iran–Iraq war, President Zia-ul-Haq played an important mediatory role, with Pakistan actively engaging in efforts to end the conflict.
Since the river is in a foreign country, it is not clear whether they named the river after the god, or whether the god Hydaspes was named after the river.
Since then, it has been generally known as the Line of Control or the (LoC).
Since then, most of the population converted to Islam, predominantly following the Ismaili sect.
Since then, the number of these turtles on the shores of Sindh and Balochistan has dropped significantly.
Since then, with help from the Government of Pakistan and foreign aid, reconstruction of infrastructure is underway.
Since this has long been their main source of income, resistance to challenges to the Shinwari's authority has often been fierce.
Sind'Bad Seamount, named after the fictional explorer Sinbad the Sailor, Zheng He Seamount, and the Mount Error Guyot are some notable sea mounts in western Arabian Sea.
Sindh and Punjab are located on the north-western corner of the Indian Plate, while Balochistan and much of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa lie along its north-western margin.
Sindh and surrounding areas contain the ruins of the Indus Valley Civilization.
Sindh came to be at the forefront of the Khilafat Movement.
Sindh has numerous tourist sites with the most prominent being the ruins of Mohenjo-daro near the city of Larkana.
Sindh has the second highest Human Development Index out of all of Pakistan's provinces at 0.628.
Sindh is a fertile region and often called the "breadbasket" of the country; the damage and toll of the floods on the local agrarian economy is said to be extensive.
Sindh is a fertile region and often called the "breadbasket" of the country; the damage and toll of the floods on the local agrarian economy was said to be extensive.
Sindh is also the only province in Pakistan to have a separate law for governing Hindu marriages.
Sindh is bounded by the Thar Desert to the east, the Kirthar Mountains to the west and the Arabian Sea and Rann of Kutch to the south.
Sindh is home to a large portion of Pakistan's industrial sector and contains two of the country's busiest commercial seaports: Port Qasim and the Port of Karachi.
Sindh is in the western corner of South Asia, bordering the Iranian plateau in the west.
Sindh is prominent for its history during the Bronze Age under the Indus Valley civilization, and is home to two UNESCO-designated World Heritage Sites: the Makli Necropolis and Mohenjo-daro.
Sindh is sometimes referred to as the Bab-ul Islam (transl.
Sindh lies in a tropical to subtropical region; it is hot in the summer and mild to warm in winter.
Sindh's largest district by area is Tharparkar and by population its Karachi West with a population of 3,914,757 in the 2017 census.
Sindh, Punjab and Azad Jammu & Kashmir provinces lie on the north-western edge of the Indian plate in South Asia.
Sindh[c] is a province of Pakistan, located in the southeastern region of the country.
Sindhi Hindus differentiated between the local Sindhi Muslims and the migrant Muslims from India.
Sindhi Hindus were seen as representing the interests of Bombay instead of the majority of Sindhi Muslims.
Sindhi Hindus who left generally did so out of a fear of persecution, rather than persecution itself, because of the arrival of Muslim refugees from India.
Sindhi Hindus, for the most part, opposed the separation of Sindh from Bombay.
Sindhi Muslims eventually demanded the separation of Sindh from the Bombay Presidency, a move opposed by Sindhi Hindus.
Sindhi caps are manufactured commercially on a small scale at New Saeedabad and Hala New.
Sindhi people began celebrating Sindhi Topi Day on 6 December 2009, to preserve the historical culture of Sindh by wearing Ajrak and Sindhi topi.
Sindhi support for the Pakistan Movement arose from the desire of the Sindhi Muslim business class to drive out their Hindu competitors.
Sino-Pakistani nuclear cooperation began in the 1980s, leading to the establishment of CHASNUPP-I.
Sir Creek), fishermen often don't know when they've crossed the border.
Situated at an elevation of 2,226 metres (7,303 ft) above sea level, the Katpana Cold Desert is one of the highest deserts in the world.
Situated at an elevation of 2,226 metres (7,303 ft) above sea level, the Katpana Desert is one of the highest deserts in the world.
Situated at the crossroads of South Asia, the Middle East, and Central Asia, Pakistan's location is geopolitically significant.
Six amphibian species occur in Kirthar National Park: Asian common toad, skittering frog, Indian bullfrog, Indian burrowing frog and long-legged cricket frog.
Skins from livestock such as sheep and camels are also sold for making leather goods whilst teeth and bones are utilised for objects such as buttons, jewellery, and decoration.
Slavery, as with all major ancient and medieval societies, has been a part of Central Asia and South Asia history.
Slopes can be steep and there are numerous water-crossings which require a lot of hard work and strength.
Smaller rivers with headwaters in the range include the Khash, the Farah and the Arashkan (Harut) rivers.
Snow and glacier areas covered about 4% of the high-elevation section in 2018, while waterbodies and riverbeds/channels together accounted for 2%.
Snow fall also occurs there in December and January.
Snow leopards have killed about 2.6% of the local livestock per year in response to their shrinking habitat.
Snow often falls in the winter and many towns are closed such as Naran.
Snow remains very frequent at high altitudes but rarely lasts long on the ground in the major towns and agricultural valleys.
Snowfall also occurs there in December and January.
So all their crafts initially stemmed from necessity but later on they started exporting their goods to the other places as well.
So, Vasishtha landed on dry land and was unharmed.
Socotra, also spelled Soqotra, is the largest island, being part of a small archipelago of four islands.
Sohan halwa, a beloved sweet dish from southern Punjab, is savored across Pakistan.
Soil in the region is also highly saline.
Soil quality is generally poor with little organic matter in the Greater Cholistan, and compacted alluvial clays in the Lesser Cholistan.
Solar power is now slowly flourishing but it is still installed on a small scale.
Some 250 plant species were recorded in the initial surveys including 7 yet undescribed species.
Some Arab countries perceived the 'Islamistan' project as Pakistan's bid to dominate other Muslim states.
Some Islamic clerics and some politicians have attempted to ban the participation of non-Islamic festivals because of the religious basis, and they being declared haram (forbidden in Islam).
Some Kashmiri nationalist groups, such as the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front, claim Gilgit-Baltistan as part of a future independent state to match what existed in 1947.
Some academics such as Rudolph Rummel and Rounaq Jahan say both sides committed genocide; others such as Richard Sisson and Leo E. Rose believe there was no genocide.
Some even refer to this region as the "Third Pole".
Some evidence of this expedition is kept in the National Archives of Washington, D.C.
Some geographers designate Plateau as to the west of the imaginary southwest line; and the Indus Plain lies to the east of that line.
Some geographers designate additional major regions.
Some geologists refer to all the rivers collectively as the circum-Himalayan rivers.
Some have expressed concerns on the future of the environment of the region in light of the Gwadar port's expansion.
Some manufacturing and high-tech investments in Peshawar have helped improve job prospects for many locals, while trade in the province involves nearly every product.
Some manuscripts are in the Gāndhārī language and Kharoṣṭhī script, while others are in Sanskrit and written in forms of the Gupta script.
Some of the earliest ancient human civilisations in South Asia originated from areas encompassing present-day Pakistan.
Some of the impacts that the communities are facing include erratic rainfall, flooding, rising temperatures, and landslides.
Some of the lakes present the danger of a glacial lake outburst flood.
Some of them make use of helmet while others don't.
Some of them were adherents of Isma'ilism.
Some of these old channels were the Sirhind channel, between Sirsa and Bhatnair, and from Sirsa back to Tohana and Ropar.
Some of these rivers flow only during the rainy season, so for part of the year the water may not reach the mouth of the river.
Some political experts claim that, in view of that pact, the only solution to the issue is mutual negotiation between the two countries without involving a third party such as the United Nation.
Some reports say that it might contain the highest density of these beautiful cats in the total Himalayan ecosystem, which is the natural habitat of these cats.
Some scholars believe that settlements of Gandhara grave culture of the early Indo-Aryans flourished in Gandhara from 1700 BC to 600 BC, when Mohenjo-daro and Harappa had already been abandoned.
Some unusual sightings of Asian cheetah occurred in 2003 near the Balochistan border in Kirthar Mountains.
Sometimes, despite average annual rainfall, the daily distribution or geographic distribution of the rain is substantially skewed.
Soon after the arrests, a high-level meeting was chaired by Yahya Khan.
Soon afterward, Sardar Ibrahim escaped to Pakistan and led the Poonch rebellion from there, with the assistance of Pakistan's prime minister Liaquat Ali Khan and other officials.
Sources state that it was no more than a compilation of various resolutions passed by the party.
South from there, they meet the Spin Ghar range northeast of Gardez in Paktia province, but towards west, the mountain range drops gradually in Kandahar southwest into Helmand and the Sistan Basin.
South of the main range, the lakes are smaller.
South of the triple junction, where the fault zone lies undersea and extends southwest to approximately 10°N 57°E, it is known as the Owen fracture zone.
Sparse deserts can be found in southern Punjab near the border with Rajasthan and the Sulaiman Range.
Special attention has been paid to the potential roles of environmental NGOs, women's organizations, and international NGOs in working with the government in its conservation efforts.
Specifically, studies have revealed the negative consequences air pollution can have on the welfare of those impacted.
Spread across an area of 264,091 km2 (101,966 sq mi), it is one of the largest subtropical deserts in Asia by area.
Spring causes heavy rainfall in the northern parts while it is mild in most parts of Pakistan.
Spring starts in early March and ends in mid-May with average temperatures close to 15 °C (59 °F).
Squash player Jahangir Khan holds the record for the longest winning streak in professional sport history, winning 555 consecutive matches.
St. Paul's church was built in the immediate vicinity of Manora Fort in 1865.
Starting in 2014, the government started pursuing a Billion Tree Tsunami policy, and in 2018 that policy was extended to a 10 billion tree, Plant for Pakistan program.
Still, after his Macedonians conquered the west bank—joining it to the Hellenic world, they elected to retreat along the southern course of the river, ending Alexander's Asian campaign.
Strategically located on Pakistan's northern border and China's southwest border, it connects the two countries via Gilgit-Baltistan, making it a significant landmark of the Hunza Valley.
Strength: The strength of the southwest monsoon is determined by the strength of the easterly tropical jet over central India.
Students and teachers from the National University of Science and Technology developed Pakistan's first ever hybrid gasoline car, the Devrim II, inspired by the Turkish model Devrim.
Studies have measured an approximately 13% overall decrease in glacial coverage in the Himalayas over the last 40–50 years.
Studies have revealed how the constant fluctuation of particulate matter poses a major threat to Pakistan's citizens who are frequently exposes to harmful levels of air pollution.
Subsequently, a new division was added in Sindh, the Nawab Shah/Shaheed Benazirabad division.
Subsequently, the Indus Basin Project was developed in Pakistan, which transfers waters from western rivers of the Indus system to replenish the portion of the Ravi River lying in that country.
Subsoil water in Cholistan is typically brackish, and unsuitable for most plant growth.
Subsoil water is found at a depth of 30–40 meters, but is typically brackish, and unsuitable for most plant growth.
Such a link would vastly shorten the 12,000-kilometre route that Mideast oil supplies must now take to reach Chinese ports.
Such controversies stirred up anti-Hindu sentiments amongst the province's Muslim population.
Such nutrients cause eutrophication in surface water.
Sufism continues to play an important role in the daily lives of Sindhis.
Suggestions for new names came and went.
Suhrawardy advocated for the USSR-based Five-Year Plans to centralise the national economy.
Suhrawardy also promoted relations with the People's Republic of China.
Suhrawardy served as the Prime Minister of Pakistan between 1956 and 1957 and a Bengali bureaucrat Iskander Mirza became the first President of Pakistan.
Suhrawardy strengthened relations with the United States by reinforcing Pakistani membership in the Central Treaty Organization and the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization.
Sultan Lashkar Janjua and Raja Sanghral Ali Khan Janjua were also commanding their own Muslim Janjua Rajputs during the battles of Panipat and Khanwa against Rana Sanga.
Summer starts from late May and goes on until early September with average temperatures ranging from 24–26 °C (75–79 °F).
Summer temperatures can surpass 46 °C (115 °F), and sometimes rise over 50 °C (122 °F) during periods of drought.
Summers (May to August) are hot and humid, with average highs around 32 °C (90 °F) and nighttime lows near 28 °C (82 °F).
Summers are extremely dry in the north of Chitral district and receive only a little rain in the south around Drosh.
Summers are hot and dry, especially in the arid zones of Chagai and Kharan districts.
Summers are sweltering, boiling and extremely hot in central Balochistan, southern Punjab and Upper Sindh while it gets milder the more you go to the north and the coast.
Summers in the area see temperatures generally range from 32o C - 40o C and average around 35o C between June and July.
Surkhail Lake, located at an altitude of 14,100 feet, is the highest and topmost cascade lake.
Suspended Particulate Matter, which has been linked to respiratory illnesses has been found in harmful quantities in Pakistan's major urban areas.
Sutlej is an antecedent river, which existed before the Himalayas and entrenched itself while they were rising.
Swat District consists of two well-defined geographic regions, Swat Kohistan and Swat Proper.
Swat District was centred on the Valley of Swat, usually referred to simply as Swat, which is a natural geographic region surrounding the Swat River.
Swat Kohistan forms the larger, northern part of the district, and is mainly inhabited by the indigenousTorwali and Gawri peoples.
Swat Motorway has been completed and operational up to Chakdarra.
Swat Proper forms the lower portion of the district and has a Pashtun majority, with a significant Gujar population.
Swat and the wider region of Gandhara were overrun by the Alchon Huns around about 465 CE.
Swat continued to exist as an autonomous region until it was dissolved in 1969, and incorporated into Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province (formerly called NWFP).
Swat had 65 union councils: 56 rural and 9 urban.
Swat then is characterized by thick forests along the narrow gorges of the Kalam Valley until the city of Madyan.
Swat's lower reaches have vegetation characterized by dry bush and deciduous trees, while the upper areas mostly have thick pine forests.
Swat's total area was 5,337 square kilometres (2,061 mi2).
Swat, then known as Oddiyana, was a major centre of Gandhara civilization.
Taking up the larger part of the Neelum Valley or the Kishanganga Valley, the district had a population of around 191,233 people as of the 2017 census.
Tant Gari is another small tributary that rises from the subsidiary hill ranges of the Pir Panjal Range east of Bharmour.
Tarbela Dam in Pakistan is constructed on the Indus River, while the controversial Kalabagh dam is also being constructed on Indus River.
Tarns are found mostly in the upper reaches of the Himalaya, above 5,500 m (18,000 ft).
Taxila had one of the earliest universities and centres of higher education in the world, which was established during the late Vedic period in the 6th century BCE.
Taxila is considered to be the site of one of the oldest education centre of South Asia and was part of the Achaemenid province of Hindush.
Taxila was the capital city of ancient Gāndhāra, situated on the eastern shore of the Indus—the pivotal junction of the Indian subcontinent and Central Asia; it was founded around 1000 BCE.
Taxila's archaeological sites lie near modern Taxila about 35 km (22 mi) northwest of the city of Rawalpindi.
Taxila, however, is most famous for ruins of several settlements, the earliest dating from around 1000 BCE.
Team member Thomas Montgomerie designated the mountain "K2" for being the second peak of the Karakoram range.
Technically it ranked, not as a British district, but as an agency or administered area.
Tectonic plates, comprising the crust and the upper portions of their underlying mantle, are moved around by convection in the asthenosphere.
Tectonically, it is actually a system of related geologic faults that separates the Eurasian plate from the Indo-Australian plate.
Temperate Himalayan wetlands provide important habitat and layover sites for migratory birds.
Temperature at a location on a mountain depends on the season of the year, the bearing of the sun with respect to the face on which the location lies, and the mass of the mountain, i.e.
Temperatures are rising four times faster than elsewhere in China, and the Tibetan glaciers are retreating at a higher speed than in any other part of the world...
Temperatures fall by 0.2 to 1.2 °C for every 100 m (330 ft) rise in altitude.
Temperatures in the Himalayas cool by 2.0 degrees C (3.6 degrees F) for every 300 metres (980 ft) increase of altitude.
Temperatures range from a maximum of 27 °C (81 °F) and a minimum (in October) of 8 °C (46 °F), which can drop further to below −17 °C (1 °F) in December and January.
Ten years later, it was described to be "under the government of Persia" by Xuanzang who visited the region.
Tensions in Kargil brought the two countries to the brink of war.
Tensions with India led to Pakistan's 1998 underground nuclear tests, making it the seventh country to possess such weapons.
Territorial disputes led to another war in 1965.
Thal desert is home to both resident and migratory species.
Tharparkar district hosts the largest Hindu population.
That day is a national holiday in Pakistan.
That led to apologies from the coalition forces in Afghanistan and top NATO and U.S. officials.
The "Precambrian Phe Formation" is also here intruded by several Ordovician (c. 480 Ma) granites.
The "bursting" of the monsoon is primarily explained by the jet stream theory and the dynamic theory.
The 1,609 km (1,000 mi) Indus River and its tributaries traverse the nation from Kashmir to the Arabian Sea, sustaining alluvial plains along the Punjab and Sindh regions.
The 100,000 and more injured suffered from fractures, crush injuries and lacerations.
The 15th century saw the emergence of the Langah Sultanate in south Punjab, acclaimed for its victory over the Lodi dynasty.
The 15th century saw the rise of many prominent Muslims from Punjab.
The 16th-18th century Taung Tombs are also located in the range.
The 16th-century Mughal court historian Abu al-Fazl ibn Mubarak also refers to the range as Hindu Koh in his Ain-i-Akbari.
The 1946 elections saw the Muslim League secure 90 percent of the Muslim seats, supported by the landowners of Sindh and Punjab.
The 1949 Karachi agreement only carefully delineated the line of separation to point NJ9842, after which, the agreement states, the line of separation would continue "thence north to the glaciers".
The 1953 documentary Nanga Parbat 1953 was filmed and directed by cinematographer Hans Ertl, who participated in the expedition and climbed to camp 5 (6500m).
The 1953 documentary film Nanga Parbat 1953 was filmed and directed by Hans Ertl, who participated in the expedition.
The 1954 Italian expedition finally succeeded in ascending to the summit of K2 via the Abruzzi Spur on 31 July 1954.
The 1958 Pakistani coup d'état brought general Ayub Khan to power.
The 1962 constitution created a gubernatorial system in West and East Pakistan.
The 1969 uprising in East Pakistan contributed to Ayub Khan's overthrow.
The 1970 Bhola cyclone was one of the deadliest natural disasters of the 20th century.
The 1972 Simla Agreement made no change to the 1949 Line of Control in this northernmost sector.
The 1974 Interim Constitution Act was passed by the 48-member Azad Jammu and Kashmir unicameral assembly.
The 1998 census report lists two sub-divisions: Lower Zhob (comprising Zhob tehsil and Sambaza sub-tehsil) and Kakar Khurasan (encompassing the tehsil of Qamar Din Karez and the subtehsil of Ashewat).
The 2000 acre of land was leased to Chinese Company in November 2015 for the construction of Gwadar Economic Zone., while construction of the project began on 20 June 2016.
The 2005 Kashmir earthquake in North Pakistan destroyed roads and other infrastructure and made access more difficult.
The 2005 Kashmir earthquake in North Pakistan made access more difficult.
The 2005 census concerning Afghans in Pakistan showed that a total of 769,268 Afghan refugees were temporarily staying in Balochistan.
The 2010 Pakistan floods were considered "good news" for the ecosystem of the river delta as they brought an excess of much needed fresh water.
The 2010 floods displaced nearly 1 million people in southern Sindh, including those living in the delta.
The 2011 Sindh floods began during the Pakistani monsoon season in mid-August 2011, resulting from heavy monsoon rains in Sindh, eastern Balochistan, and southern Punjab.
The 2011 Sindh floods began during the monsoon season in mid-August 2011, resulting from heavy monsoon rains in Sindh, Eastern Balochistan, and Southern Punjab.
The 2011 remeasurement suggested the source was a small lake northeast of Mount Kailash, rather than either of the two points previously used.
The 2013 North India floods, which killed more than 5000 people in a span of 3 days, is said to be a result of one such interaction.
The 2017 census recorded that 40.3% of the country's population was under the age of 15, while only 3.7% of Pakistanis were aged 65 or more.
The 2022 Pakistan floods mainly caused by increased precipitation and glaciers melting fueled by climate change, destroyed around 50% of the crops of Pakistan which can lead to food shortages.
The 2023 Census enumerated a population of 14,894,402.
The 2023 Census of Pakistan indicated a population of 55.7 million.
The 302,000 acre-feet (373,000,000 m3) Mirani Dam is located across the Dasht River in the Central Makran Range.
The 3rd millennium BC saw the rise of Indus Valley Civilisation, a major urban civilization of the Bronze Age.
The 42-year-old mountaineer, who is member of the CAI Biella expedition, climbed alone and without supplementary oxygen.
The 5,700-hectare Bhadla Solar Park, with a generation capacity of over 2 gigawatts, is located in the Thar Desert.
The 5000 square miles of the plateau range from an average height of 1200 to 1900 feet above the sea level.
The 649-km-long Indira Gandhi Canal brings fresh water to the Thar Desert.
The 8th century CE witnessed the Hindu Shahis rise, known for defeating the Persianate Saffarid dynasty and the Samanid Empire.
The ANP government eventually led the initiatives to repeal the major Islamist's social programs, with the backing of the federal government led by PPP in Islamabad.
The Achaemenids conquered the region and established the satrapy of Hindush.
The Adamjee Jute Mills was the largest jute processing plant in history and its location in Narayanganj was nicknamed the Dundee of the East.
The Adamjees were descendants of Sir Haji Adamjee Dawood, who made his fortune in British Burma.
The Afridis massacred a Mughal battalion in the Khyber Pass in 1672 and shut the pass to lucrative trade routes.
The Ahmadis are a minority, officially considered non-Muslims.
The Ali brothers sought to project Pakistan as the natural leader of the Islamic world, partly due to its significant manpower and military strength.
The Anatolian sub-plate is currently being squeezed by the collision of the Eurasian plate with the Arabian plate in the East Anatolian Fault Zone.
The Arab conqueror Muhammad ibn Qasim conquered Sindh and some regions of Punjab in 711 CE.
The Arabian Sea has been crossed by many important marine trade routes since the 3rd or 2nd millennium BCE.
The Arabian Sea has one of the world's three largest oceanic oxygen minimum zones (OMZ), or “dead zones,” along with the eastern tropical North Pacific and the eastern tropical South Pacific.
The Arabian Sea humpback whale (*Megaptera novaeangliae*), one of the rarest whale populations, has been occasionally sighted near Astola Island.
The Arabian Sea's OMZ has the lowest levels of oxygen in the world, especially in the Gulf of Oman.
The Aravalli Range formed rapidly, and reached significant altitude during the early Holocene period (11,700 years ago).
The Arun river drains the northern slopes of these mountains, before turning south and flowing to the range to the east of Makalu.
The Asiatic Society of Pakistan was founded in Old Dacca by Ahmad Hasan Dani in 1948.
The Assembly was established under Article 106 of the Constitution of Pakistan as having a total of 371 seats, with 66 seats reserved for women and eight reserved for non-Muslims.
The Awami League emerged as the single largest party, followed by the Pakistan Peoples Party.
The Awami National Party has been instrumental in fighting the Taliban.
The Awami National Party sought to rename the province "Pakhtunkhwa", which translates to "Land of Pakhtuns" in the Pashto language.
The Awans now occupy western half of these hills towards Nilab and Janjuas (Rajputs), the eastern part of these Hills.
The Azad Jammu and Kashmir Council is a supreme body consisting of 14 members, 8 from the government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir and 6 from the government of Pakistan.
The Azadirachta indica (neem) (nim), Zizyphys vulgaris (bir) (ber), Tamarix orientalis (jujuba lai) and Capparis aphylla (kirir) are among the more common trees.
The BBC describes Pakistani media as "among the most outspoken in South Asia".
The Baloch, under the command of Ashkash, conquered this land, which Makran was a part of Balochistan.
The Balochistan Plateau lies in the west and the Thar Desert in the east.
The Balochistan plateau is located in the south-west of Pakistan with altitudes mainly ranging from 600 to 3010 metres.
The Balti people call it 'Ghbiarsa' (Balti: غبیارسہ), meaning 'summer's place', because it is only accessible in the summer.
The Baltoro Glacier (Balti: བལྟོརོ་གངས།, romanized: Baltoro gangs, lit.
The Baltoro Glacier flows through the Karakoram, bordered by the Baltoro Muztagh to the north and east, and the Masherbrum Mountains to the south.
The Bangla Academy was established in 1954.
The Battle of Chenab was fought between Sikhs and Afghans on the bank of the river.
The Bhaga River originates from Surya taal lake, which is situated a few kilometers west of the Bara-lacha la pass in Himachal Pradesh.
The Bhir Mound ruins at the site date from the 6th century BCE, and are adjacent to Hathial.
The Biafo Glacier (Urdu: بیافو گلیشیر) is a glacier located within the Karakoram mountain range in the Hispar Valley, Nagar District of Gilgit-Baltistan, Pakistan.
The Biafo Glacier presents a trekker with several days of strenuous boulder hopping, with views throughout and Snow Lake near the high point.
The Billion Tree Tsunami was launched in 2014 by the government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) as a response against the challenge of global warming.
The Birmoghlasht part of the park is where the former Mehtar's Summer Fort is located.
The Bist Doab Canal is also fed by the river here and emerges from its right-bank.
The Bolan Pass is in the Toba Kakar range which lies south of the Hindu Kush mountain ranges.
The Bolan pass is the southern counterpart of the Khyber Pass.
The Bolān Pass is an important pass on the Baluch frontier, connecting Jacobabad and Jhang with Multan, which has always occupied an important place in the history of British campaigns in Afghanistan.
The Brahmin dynasty of Sindh succeeded the Rai dynasty.
The Brahmin, Maharaja Chacha met the invaders outside Broach and defeated them with heavy slaughter also killing their very Commander-in-Chief Abdul Aziz in the process.
The Brahui man thought the dog escaped and so was angry with the dog for his disobedience.
The Brahuis retained the Dravidian language throughout many millennia.
The British and other historic empires have crossed the region to invade Afghanistan by this route.
The British had two objectives in their rule of Sindh: the consolidation of British rule and the use of Sindh as a market for British products and a source of revenue and raw materials.
The British incorporated Sindh, some years later after annexing it, into the Bombay Presidency.
The British invested in infrastructure development, building roads, railways, and telegraph lines through the pass.
The British supervised the construction of one of the most complex irrigation networks in the world.
The Buddhist chief offered his allegiance to Chach when the latter was on his way to Kirman in 631.
The Buddhists also lay a great deal of importance on the Himalayas.
The COVID-19 pandemic has further impacted the work on the project.
The CPEC has put a debt burden on Pakistan, paving the way for China to use its "debt-trap diplomacy" and gain access to strategic assets.
The CPEC is considered central to China–Pakistan relations; its central importance is reflected by China's inclusion of the project as part of its 13th five-year development plan.
The Central Asian traders originally applied the name to the Karakoram Pass.
The Central Himalayan Domain forms the backbone of the Himalayan orogen and encompasses the areas with the highest topographic relief (highest peaks).
The Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC) at Bengaluru facilitated the Seasonal Prediction of Indian Monsoon (SPIM) experiment on the PARAM Padma supercomputing system.
The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee (CJCSC) is the highest-ranking military officer, advising the civilian government.
The Chaman Fault is a major, active geological fault in Pakistan and Afghanistan that runs for over 850 km.
The Chandra River originates from glaciers east of the same pass (near Chandra Taal).
The Chandra river transverses 115 km (71 mi) while the Bhaga river transverses 60 km (37 mi) through narrow gorges before their confluence at Tandi.
The Chardi Turis seem to have been the first to abandon their nomadic life.
The Chenab River is extensively used in Pakistan for irrigation.
The Chenab River[a] is a major river in India and Pakistan, and one of the five major rivers associated with the Punjab region.
The Chenab merges with the Sutlej to form the Panjnad River, which joins the Indus River at Mithankot.
The Chenab river was called Asikni (Sanskrit: असिक्नी) in the Rigveda (VIII.20.25, X.75.5).
The Chief Minister of Punjab (CM) is elected by the Provincial Assembly of the Punjab to serve as the head of the provincial government in Punjab, Pakistan.
The Chief Minister, the province's chief executive, is normally the leader of the largest political party or alliance of parties in the provincial assembly.
The Chief Secretary in turn, reports to the Chief Minister.
The China Trade Organization forum led the people of the area to actively invest and learn modern trade know-how from their Chinese neighbour, Xinjiang.
The Chinese Buddhist monk Xuanzang visited a Lokottaravāda monastery in the 7th century CE, at Bamiyan, Afghanistan.
The Chinese emperor also granted the ruler of Cashmere, Chandrāpīḍa ("Tchen-fo-lo-pi-li"), the title of "King of Cashmere".
The Chinese pilgrim Fa-Hsien, who visited the valley around 403 CE, mentions 500 monasteries.
The Chinese pilgrim Faxian referred to Swat as the Su-ho-to.
The Chinese share of revenue generated from Gwadar Port would be 91% of the share.
The Chitral District of Pakistan is home to Tirich Mir, Noshaq, and Istoro Nal – the highest peaks in the Hindu Kush.
The Chittagong Division of East Pakistan was home to hill ranges and forests (mainly in the Chittagong Hill Tracts and Sylhet).
The Chittagong Tea Auction was established in 1949 as the region was home to the world's largest tea plantations.
The Cholistan Desert is locally known as "Rohi 'and covers the area of Bahawalpur, Punjab.
The Cholistan desert spans an area of 16,000 square kilometers.
The Civil Armed Forces (CAF) assist local law enforcement agencies and participate in border security and internal security operations, particularly in conflict-affected regions.
The Comilla Model of the Pakistan Academy for Rural Development (present-day Bangladesh Academy for Rural Development) was conceived by Akhtar Hameed Khan and replicated in many developing countries.
The Constitution of Pakistan of 1956 replaced the Pakistani monarchy with an Islamic republic.
The Darmodar Aghost Pass is at elevation of 4,371 m (14,341 ft).
The Dasht River (Urdu: دریائے دشت) is located in the Makran region and Gwadar District, in the southwestern section of Balochistan Province, Pakistan which drains near Jiwani.
The Delhi Sultanate then succeeded the Ghaznavids in which the Tughlaq dynasty and Sayyid dynasty Sultans are described as Punjabi origin.
The Deosai National Park was established in 1993 to protect the survival of the critically endangered Himalayan brown bear and its habitat.
The Deosai Plains are located above the tree line and constitute the second-highest plateau in the world after Tibet, at 4,115 metres (13,501 ft).
The Deosai Plains are situated at an average elevation of 4,114 metres (13,497 ft) above sea level.
The Deosai Plains cover an area of almost 5,000 square kilometres (1,900 mi2).
The Desert National Park in Jaisalmer district has a collection of 180-million-year-old animal and plant fossils.
The District Coordination Officer is the administrative head of the District Administration.
The Durrani capital Qandahar was located nearby the pass which gave quick access to Indian lands.
The Earth's crust rests directly on its mantle.
The East Beas and West Beas enters the Sutlej on its right bank, with the Beas itself joining the Sutlej at Harike.
The East Pakistan Provincial Assembly was the legislative body of the territory, it was the largest provincial legislature in Pakistan and elections were held only twice in 1954 and 1970.
The East Pakistan Stock Exchange Association was established in 1954.
The Eastern Command was under constant pressure from the Awami League and requested an active-duty officer to control the command under such extreme pressure.
The Eastern Command, civilian institutions, and paramilitary forces were disbanded in the following months.
The Eastern Refinery was established in Chittagong.
The English word Polo has Balti origin, that is spoken in same region, dates back to the 19th century which means ball.
The Eocambrian salt in the Salt Range has moved on the base of thrust sheets and has high flow characteristics.
The Federal Bureau of Statistics provisionally valued the deforestation sector at Rs.25,637 million in 2005, thus registering over 3% decline of forests in Pakistan since 2000.
The Freight Business Unit with 12,000 personnel operates over 200 freight stations on the railway network.
The GSM network withstood the impact of the earthquake better.
The Gandhara grave culture that emerged c. 1400 BCE and lasted until 800 BCE, and named for their distinct funerary practices, was found along the Middle Swat River course.
The Gandhāra Kingdom, which emerged as an independent entity around 700 BCE, was recognized as a Mahajanapadas (Great Realm).
The Garuda Valley was the centre of their empire, which stretched many miles into the nearby Himalayas.
The Geological Survey of Pakistan is the premier agency responsible for studying the country's geology.
The German mountaineers were unable to attempt Mount Everest, since only the British had access to Tibet.
The Ghazaband and Ornach-Nal faults are often included as part of the Chaman fault system.
The Ghurids and Ghaznavids continued to rule parts of Sindh, across the eleventh and early twelfth century, alongside Soomras.
The Gilgit rebellion did not have civilian involvement and was solely the work of military leaders, not all of whom had been in favour of joining Pakistan, at least in the short term.
The Gilgit-Baltistan Police (GBP) is responsible for law enforcement in Gilgit-Baltistan.
The Gilkey Memorial was built in his memory at the mountain's foot.
The Gomal (Urdu: دریائے گومل, Pashto: ګومل سیند، ګومل دریاب) is a 400-kilometre-long (250 mi) river in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
The Gomal flows southeast through the eastern Ghilji country before entering Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.
The Gomal's other branch, the "Second Gomal", joins the main channel about 14 miles below its source.
The Government is making plans for this project.
The Government of Pakistan abolished State Subject Rule in Gilgit-Baltistan in 1974, allowing people from outside Gilgit Baltistan to buy land in the territory.
The Government of Pakistan governs the western parts of the Kashmir Region, organized into separate political entities, Azad Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan.
The Government of Punjab is a provincial government in the federal structure of Pakistan, is based in Lahore, the capital of the Punjab Province.
The Grand Trunk Road was a major road commissioned by Sher Shah Suri in the 16th century and used during the Suri and Mughal periods.
The Great Indian Bustard (Ardeotis nigriceps), one of the world’s heaviest flying birds, inhabits the Thar Desert of Rajasthan.
The Greeks who conquered Sindh in 325 BC under the command of Alexander the Great referred to the Indus River as Indós, hence the modern Indus.
The Gulf of Aden in the west connects the Arabian Sea to the Red Sea through the strait of Bab-el-Mandeb, and the Gulf of Oman is in the northwest, connecting it to the Persian Gulf.
The Gulf of Oman and the Arabian Sea are to the south.
The Gwadar Port dredging project will deepen approach channels to a depth of 14 meters from the current 11.5-meter depth, at a cost of $27 million.
The Gwadar Port project will also complement China's Western Development plan, which includes not only Xinjiang, but also the neighbouring regions of Tibet and Qinghai.
The HHCS forms a major nappe which is thrust over the Lesser Himalaya along the "Main Central Thrust" (MCT).
The Habbari dynasty ruled much of Greater Sindh, as a semi-independent emirate from 854 to 1024.
The Hangul National Park Team consists of more than 20 members, including the Wildlife Pakistan, the Provincial Department of Livestock, Environment and Tourism.
The Himalaya is classically divided into four tectonic units that can be followed for more than 2400 km along the belt (Fig.
The Himalaya-Tibet region supplies fresh water for more than one-fifth of the world population, and accounts for a quarter of the global sedimentary budget.
The Himalayan Wildlife Foundation ran two park entry check posts and a field research camp in Deosai for approximately ten years.
The Himalayan hydroclimate is crucial for South Asia, where annual summer monsoon floods impact millions.
The Himalayan mountain range consists of three sub-ranges: (1) the Higher- or "Tethys" Himalayas, (2) the Lesser Himalayas, and (3) the Siwaliks.
The Himalayan mountain range runs west-northwest to east-southeast in an arc 2,400 km (1,500 mi) long.
The Himalayan musk deer is also found at high altitudes.
The Himalayan people's diversity shows in many different ways.
The Himalayan range in Pakistan occupies the regions of Kashmir, Kaghan, Kohistan, Deosai and Chilas.
The Himalayan range is bordered on the northwest by the Karakoram and Hindu Kush ranges, on the north by the Tibetan Plateau, and on the south by the Indo-Gangetic Plain.
The Himalayan region is dotted with hundreds of lakes.
The Himalayan tectonics result in long term deformation.
The Himalayas are also considered to be the father of the goddess Ganga (the personification of river Ganges).
The Himalayas are home to a diversity of medicinal resources.
The Himalayas border the Indo-Gangetic Plain to the south, Pamir Mountains to the west in Central Asia, and the Hengduan Mountains to the east on the China–Myanmar border.
The Himalayas form most of the south-west portion of the disputed Indian-administered union territory of Ladakh.
The Himalayas have a profound effect on the climate of the Indian subcontinent and the Tibetan Plateau.
The Himalayas have profoundly shaped the cultures of South Asia and Tibet.
The Himalayas here are becoming increasingly rugged, with heavily forested steep valleys.
The Himalayas stretch continuously for about 2500 km from east to west.
The Himalayas,[b] or Himalaya,[c] is a mountain range in Asia separating the plains of the Indian subcontinent from the Tibetan Plateau.
The Hindu Kush form the boundary between the Indus watershed in South Asia, and Amu Darya watershed in Central Asia.
The Hindu Kush is an 800-kilometre-long (500 mi) mountain range in Central and South Asia to the west of the Himalayas.
The Hindu Kush mountain passes connected the slave markets of Central Asia with slaves seized in South Asia.
The Hindu Kush range has also been the passageway for invasions of the Indian subcontinent, and continues to be important to contemporary warfare in Afghanistan.
The Hindu Kush range region was a historically significant center of Buddhism, with sites such as the Bamiyan Buddhas.
The Hindu Kush range remains geologically active and is still rising; it is prone to earthquakes.
The Hindu Kush range was a major center of Buddhism with sites such as the Bamiyan Buddhas.
The Hindu Kush rises southwest of the Pamirs extending into Swat and Kohistan areas, separated on the east from Karakoram by the Indus River.
The Hindu Kush system stretches about 966 kilometres (600 mi) laterally, and its median north–south measurement is about 240 kilometres (150 mi).
The Hindu Sewa Dynasty ruled parts of Balochistan, chiefly Kalat.
The Hindu Sewa dynasty ruled much of Baluchistan up until the 7th century CE.
The Hindu Shahis are believed to belong to the Uḍi/Oḍi tribe, namely the people of Oddiyana (modern Swat) in Gandhara, although they are also variously stated to be Brāhmāns or Kshātriyas.
The Hindu Shahis are believed to belong to the Uḍi/Oḍi tribe, namely the people of Oddiyana, present-day Swat.
The Hindu population in the province was approximately 49,133 (including the Scheduled Castes).
The Hindu rulers eventually exiled themselves to the Kashmir Siwalik Hills.
The Hingol River holds deep spiritual importance, particularly at the Hinglaj Mata Temple (also known as Nani Mandir), located in a cave along the river's bank.
The Hunza Valley (Burushaski: ہُنزݳ دِش‎, romanized: Hunza Dish; Wakhi/Urdu: وادی ہنزہ) is a mountainous valley located in the region of Gilgit-Baltistan in Pakistan administered Kashmir.
The Hunza Valley is also home to some Wakhi, who migrated there from northeastern Afghanistan beginning in the nineteenth century onwards.
The Hunza Valley is home to several high peaks that rise above 7,000 m in its the surroundings.
The ITCZ, as the zone of lowest pressure in the tropical region, is the target destination for the trade winds of both hemispheres.
The IUCN agreed with this, and has since distanced itself from the national park.
The Indian Air Force dismantled the capability of the Pakistan Air Force in East Pakistan.
The Indian Army has developed various means to reach the Siachen region, including the Manali-Leh-Khardung La-Siachen route.
The Indian Army, entered East Pakistan from all three directions of the province.
The Indian Navy then decided to wait near the Bay of Bengal until the Army reached the shore.
The Indian Navy was unable to land forces in East Pakistan and the Pakistan Navy was still offering resistance.
The Indian continent became part of East Gondwana, together with Australia and Antarctica.
The Indian peafowl is a resident breeder in the Thar region.
The Indian plate is a minor tectonic plate straddling the equator in the Indian Ocean.
The Indian plate is currently moving north-east at five cm (2.0 in) per year, while the Eurasian plate is moving north at only two cm (0.79 in) per year.
The Indian plate is moving at 67 mm (2.6 in) per year, and over the next 10 million years, it will travel 1,500 km (930 mi) into Asia.
The Indian plate then broke off from Australia and Antarctica in the Early Cretaceous (130-125 Ma) with the opening of the "South Indian Ocean" (Fig.
The Indian plate was not the only landmass that had rifted from Gondwana and drifted northward toward Eurasia.
The Indian state of Punjab is currently the 16th richest state or the eighth richest large state of India.
The Indo-Greek king Menander I (reigned 155–130 BCE) drove the Greco-Bactrians out of Gandhara and beyond the Hindu Kush, becoming king shortly after his victory.
The Indo-Parthian Kingdom was ruled by the Gondopharid dynasty, named after its first ruler Gondophares.
The Indo-Scythians were descended from the Sakas (Scythians) who migrated from Central Asia into South Asia from the middle of the 2nd century BCE to the 1st century BCE.
The Induan Age at the start of the Triassic Period of geological time is named for the Indus region.
The Indus (/ˈɪndəs/ IN-dəs) is a transboundary river of Asia and a trans-Himalayan river of South and Central Asia.
The Indus Basin Irrigation System is the "largest contiguous irrigation system developed over the past 140 years" anywhere in the world.
The Indus Basin consists of various topographical regions.
The Indus Basin is the part of Asia drained by the Indus River and its tributaries.
The Indus Basin is the second most water stressed basin of the world.
The Indus Basin lies in four countries: Pakistan, India, China, and Afghanistan.
The Indus River Delta forms where the Indus River flows into the Arabian Sea, mostly in the southern Sindh province of Pakistan with a small portion in the Kutch Region of India.
The Indus River and its watershed have a rich biodiversity.
The Indus River basin has high diversity, being the home of more than 180 freshwater fish species, including 22 which are found nowhere else.
The Indus River basin is a large, fertile alluvial plain formed by silt from the Indus.
The Indus River came into the knowledge of the Western world early in the classical period, when King Darius of Persia sent his Greek subject Scylax of Caryanda to explore the river, c. 515 BC.
The Indus River dolphin (Platanista indicus minor) is found only in the Indus River.
The Indus River dolphin formerly also occurred in the tributaries of the Indus River.
The Indus River feeds the Indus submarine fan, which is the second largest sediment body on Earth.
The Indus River has a total drainage area of circa 1,120,000 km2 (430,000 mi2).
The Indus River is an antecedent river, meaning that it existed before the Himalayas and entrenched itself while they were rising.
The Indus River provides key water resources for Pakistan's economy – especially the breadbasket of Punjab province, which accounts for most of the nation's agricultural production.
The Indus River system is divided into two plains.
The Indus Valley Civilisation extended from across northeast Afghanistan to Pakistan and northwest India, with an upward reach from east of the Jhelum River to Ropar on the upper Sutlej.
The Indus Valley Civilisation had prospered in the area,[a] with several settlements along the course of the river system.
The Indus Valley Desert is located in the northern area of Pakistan.
The Indus Valley Desert lies between two major rivers in the region, the Chenab and the Indus.
The Indus Valley civilization (IVC) was a Bronze Age civilization (mature period 2600–1900 BC) which was centred mostly in the Sindh.
The Indus Valley regions are arid with poor vegetation.
The Indus Valley was later dominated by the Mauryan and Kushan Empires, Indo-Greek Kingdoms, Indo-Scythians and Hepthalites.
The Indus also supports many heavy industries and provides the main supply of potable water in Pakistan.
The Indus civilization was one of the earliest centres of pottery, and thus the pottery of Cholistan has a long history.
The Indus drainage supports some 237 million people.
The Indus eventually drains into the Arabian Sea.
The Indus has tributaries on both western and eastern side.
The Indus is one of the few rivers in the world to exhibit a tidal bore.
The Indus is second among a group of ten rivers responsible for about 90% of all the plastic that reaches the oceans.
The Indus is the most important supplier of water resources to the Punjab and Sindh plains – it forms the backbone of agriculture and food production in Pakistan.
The Indus is used for drinking and irrigation.
The Indus river dolphin is among the most endangered species in Pakistan and is found in the part of the Indus river in northern Sindh.
The Indus river started to form some 50 million years ago.
The Indus script has a commonly used fish sign, which in its various forms may simply have meant "fish", or referred to stars or gods.
The Indus system is largely fed by the snow and glaciers of the Himalayas, Karakoram and the Hindu Kush ranges.
The Indus system of rivers comprises the three Western rivers in the Indus, the Jhelum and Chenab together with three eastern rivers: the Sutlej, the Beas, and the Ravi.
The Indus then flows northwest through Ladakh (Indian-administered Kashmir) and Baltistan and Gilgit (Pakistan-administered Kashmir), just south of the Karakoram range.
The Indus' eastern tributaries are the Jhelum, Chenab, Sutlej, Ravi and Beas.
The International Indian Ocean Expedition in 1959 was among the first to perform hydrographic surveys of the Arabian Sea.
The International Organization for Migration helped 14,000 families return home, providing transport and food.
The International Rescue Committee (IRC) responded swiftly, providing emergency food, medical care, and shelter.
The International Task Force often uses the port as a base.
The Ishkoman Aghost Pass is at elevation of 4,587 m (15,049 ft).
The Islamic conquest of the area happened under Sabuktigin who conquered Jayapala's dominion west of Peshawar in the 10th century.
The Islamic festivals are set according to the lunar Islamic calendar (Hijri), and the date falls earlier by 10 to 13 days from year to year.
The Islamic festivals are typically observed.
The Islamist government also attempted to enforce compulsory hijab on women, and wished to enforce gender segregation in the province's educational institutions.
The Islamist party Jamaat-e-Islami backed an Islamic state and opposed Bengali nationalism.
The Ispahani family, Africawala brothers, and the Adamjee family were pioneers of industrialisation in the region.
The Jallianwala massacre fueled the Indian independence movement.
The Jallianwala massacre fuelled the Indian independence movement.
The Japanese expedition took the Abruzzi Spur and used more than 1,500 porters.
The Jhelum River[a] is a major river in South Asia, flowing through India and Pakistan, and is the westernmost of the five major rivers of the Punjab region.
The Jhelum and the Ravi rivers join the Chenab River; the Beas River joins the Sutlej River; and the Sutlej and the Chenab rivers join to form the Panjnad River.
The Jhelum enters Pakistani Punjab in the Jhelum District.
The Jhelum may have once flowed in a southeastern direction into the Chenab valley, which is the opposite of its present course.
The Jhelum, Chenab, and Ravi rivers met in the northeastern direction of Multan, then flowing east together until they met the Beas River near Uchh in the southern direction of Multan.
The K2 Gneiss consists of a mixture of orthogneiss and biotite-rich paragneiss.
The K2 Gneiss is separated from the surrounding sedimentary and metasedimentary rocks of the surrounding Karakoram Metamorphic Complex by normal faults.
The K2 Gneiss was exposed as the entire K2-Broad Peak-Gasherbrum range experienced rapid uplift with which erosion rates have been unable to keep pace.
The KANUPP-I, Pakistan's first commercial nuclear power plant, was supplied by Canada in 1971.
The KNP supports Sindh ibex, wild sheep (urial) and black bear along with the rare leopard.
The Kabul River empties into the Indus River near Attock, Pakistan.
The Kabul River is impounded by several dams that were constructed in the 20th century.
The Kabul River is little more than a trickle for most of the year, but swells in summer due to melting snows in the Hindu Kush Range.
The Kabul River later gave its name to the region and to the settlement of Kabul.
The Kaghan Valley was formed in the greater Pleistocene Period dating back almost 300,000 years when the area was covered with ice.
The Kalhora ruled the region until 1783.
The Kali Mata temple in a cave in the Hanglaj Valley is said to be 200,000 years old.
The Kand Malir beach, also known as the "Golden Beach", is considered one of the most beautiful beaches of Pakistan due to its clear water.
The Kanju village has seen an influx of academics in the region and is considered a hub for the Matta and Kabal Tehsils of Swat Valley.
The Karakoram (English: /ˌkɑːrəˈkɔːrəm, ˌkær-/, Urdu: [kaːɾaːkoːɾəm]) is a mountain range in Asia located primarily in the Kashmir region.
The Karakoram Highway connects Islamabad to Gilgit and Skardu, which are the two major hubs for mountaineering expeditions in Gilgit-Baltistan.
The Karakoram are generally considered separate from the Himalayas.
The Karakoram contains four of the fourteen eight-thousanders, the highest of which is K2, the second highest mountain on Earth.
The Karakoram is in one of the world's most geologically active areas, at the plate boundary between the Indo-Australian plate and the Eurasian plate.
The Karakoram is the second-highest mountain range on Earth and part of a complex of ranges that includes the Pamir Mountains, Hindu Kush, and the Indian Himalayas.
The Karakoram mountain range has been referred to in a number of novels and movies.
The Karakoram range in Gilgit Baltistan covers the border between Pakistan, India and China in the regions of Ladakh and Xinjiang.
The Karnali River rises in Tibet but cuts through the centre of the region.
The Kashmir conflict remains a major issue between Pakistan and India, with three of their four wars fought over it.
The Kashmir valley is completely surrounded by mountains, with the valley floor being 1850 meters above sea level, but the encircling mountains reach heights of 3000–4000 meters.
The Katas Raj Temples also known as Qila Katas, is a complex of several Hindu temples connected to one another by walkways.
The Katasraj temple in the city of Chakwal is a major destination for Hindu devotees.
The Katpana Desert is a high-altitude desert located near Skardu, in Pakistan's northern Gilgit-Baltistan region.
The Kech-Makran region in southwestern Pakistan, along Kech River, was inhabited as early as the 5th millennium BCE.
The Kharan Desert (Urdu: صحرائے خاران) is a sandy and mountainous desert situated in Balochistan Province in south-western Pakistan.
The Kharan Desert (Urdu: صحرائے خاران) is a sandy and mountainous desert situated in Balochistan province in south-western Pakistan.
The Kharan Desert is located in Northeast Balochistan (a Pakistani state).
The Khasa Hills and Mulri Hills close to the Arabian Sea coast are sub-ranges of the Kirthar Mountains which extend into the city limits of Karachi.
The Khewra Salt Mine in Khewra is the second largest salt mine in the world.
The Khewra Salt Mines is one of the oldest mines in South Asia.
The Khulna Division and parts of the Dacca and Chittagong Divisions were largely Deltaic.
The Khumbu region, popular for trekking, is found here on the south-western approaches to Everest.
The Khunjerab Pass is the only motorable pass across the range.
The Khyber Pass became a critical part of the Silk Road, a major trade route from East Asia to Europe.
The Khyber Pass has witnessed the spread of Greek influence into India and the expansion of Buddhism in the opposite direction.
The Khyber Pass is considered one of the most famous mountain passes in the world.
The Khyber Pass[a] is a mountain pass in the Khyber District of the Pakistani province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, along the international border with Afghanistan.
The Kinshofer route does not ascend the middle of the Diamir Face, which is threatened by avalanches from large hanging glaciers.
The Kirthar National Park in the Kirthar range spreads over more than 3000 km2 of desert, stunted tree forests and a lake.
The Kirthars are part of the Kirthar-Sulaiman geologic province, which stretches from the Arabian Sea coast north to northwestern Pakistan along the western boundary of the Indus Valley.
The Kirthars consist of a series of parallel rock hill ridges oriented mostly north–south, with piedmont and piedmont-alluvial plains located between ridges, with dry riverbeds.
The Kotri Barrage near Hyderabad is 915 metres (3,000 ft) long and provides additional water supplies for Karachi.
The Kunar meets the Kabul near Jalalabad.
The Kunhar River (Urdu: دریائے کنہار) or River Kunhar, is a 177 kilometres (110 mi) long river, located primarily in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, northern Pakistan.
The Kurram River drains the southern flanks of the Safed Koh mountain range, and enters the Indus plains north of Bannu.
The Kurram Valley in ancient times offered the most direct route to Kabul and Gardez.
The Kurram faction of Haqqani Network is commanded by the notorious Fazal Saeed Haqqani who is known for his bloody ambushes against Shia community of Kurram Agency.
The Köppen climate classification generally classifies Punjab as having either a monsoon-influenced humid subtropical climate (Köppen: Cwa) or a hot semi-arid climate (Köppen: BSh).
The LPG (Liquefied Petroleum Gas) Air Mix Plant project by Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited was unveiled in 2020 with the goal of bringing the gas facility to Gilgit.
The Lake Saiful Muluk is named after a legendary prince from the tale titled Saiful Muluk, later on put into poem form by the Sufi poet Mian Muhammad Bakhsh.
The Lal Suhanra National Park is a major zoological garden on the outskirts of the city.
The Lamayuru and Markha Units are formed by flyschs and olistholiths deposited in a turbiditic environment, on the northern part of the Indian continental slope and in the adjoining Neotethys basin.
The Lasbela district was the worst hit as the floods washed away four-fifths of the homes, crops, and livestock.
The League won 167 out of 169 seats in East Pakistan, thereby crossing the half way mark of 150 in the 300-seat National Assembly of Pakistan.
The Lesser Himalaya often appears in tectonic windows (Kishtwar or Larji-Kulu-Rampur windows) within the High Himalaya Crystalline Sequence.
The Lhasa terrane collided with the southern boundary of the Qiangtang in the Early Cretaceous (145–100 Mya).
The Lodi dynasty, the last of the Delhi Sultanate, was replaced by the Mughal Empire (1526–1857 CE).
The Luni River is the only river in the desert.
The M-2 was the first motorway completed in 1998, linking the cities of Islamabad and Lahore.
The M-5 lead to the Sukkur District of Sindh.
The MMA, who until the elections of 2008 had a majority in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government, had proposed "Afghania" as a compromise name.
The MST Military Hospital, equipped with 12 beds and a team of experienced specialists, provided urgent medical and surgical care for post-disaster casualties.
The Manikyala Stupa is a Buddhist stupa near the village of Tope Mankiala.
The Manora Point Lighthouse was designed by Canadian engineer Alain-Chartier-de-Lotbiniere Joly de Lotbinière, and completed in 1889 to assist vessels approaching Karachi harbor.
The Maqpons of Skardu unified Gilgit-Baltistan with Chitral and Ladakh, especially in the era of Ali Sher Khan Anchan who had friendly relations with the Mughal court.
The Margalla Hills Society was established in 1989.
The Margalla range has an area of 12,605 hectares.
The Margallas are an excellent place for bird watchers.
The Mauryan military was also made up vastly of men from the Punjab Janapadas.
The Mauryans had an autocratic and centralised administration system, aided by a council of ministers, and also a well-established espionage system.
The Mirani Dam provides irrigation, flood prevention and water supply to Gwadar city.
The Monsoon of South Asia is among several geographically distributed global monsoons.
The Monsoon season (late June-late September) also occurs in the summer season.
The Moroccan traveler Ibn Battuta arrived in the Delhi Sultanate by passing through the Hindu Kush.
The Mughal Emperor Babur writes of encountering rhinoceroses along its bank in his memoirs (the Baburnama).
The Mughal Empire noted the importance of the region as a weak point in their empire's defences, and determined to hold Peshawar and Kabul at all cost against any threats from the Uzbek Shaybanids.
The Mughal Empire ruled the region until it was severely weakened in the eighteenth century.
The Mughals attempted to control the pass but faced resistance from local tribes.
The Mughals came to power in the early 16th century and gradually expanded to control all of the Punjab from their capital at Lahore.
The Mughals came to power in the early sixteenth century and gradually expanded to control all of Punjab.
The Mughals introduced Persian literature and high culture, establishing the roots of Indo-Persian culture in the region.
The Muktinath is also a place of pilgrimage for the Tibetan Buddhists.
The Multan Museum, Multan fort, DHA 360° zoo and Nuagaza tombs are significant attractions in the city.
The Muslim League declared the results as valid since over half of all eligible voters backed the merger with Pakistan.
The Muslim League had taken the cause to the public and began calling for the implementation of a separate electorate system.
The Muslim League's rise to becoming the party with the strongest support in Sindh was in large part linked to its winning over of the religious pir families.
The Muslims of the frontier ilaqas (Gilgit and the adjoining hill states) had wanted to join Pakistan.
The Muztagh Pass was crossed in 1887 by the expedition of Colonel Francis Younghusband, and the valleys above the Hunza River were explored by General Sir George K. Cockerill in 1892.
The NWFP chief minister, Sardar Mehtab Ahmed Khan, called for a referendum on the issue as a way of determining the name.
The National Assembly historically completed its first full five-year term on 15 November 2007.
The National Highway Authority or NHA is responsible for the maintenance of all national highways in Pakistan.
The Neelum District is the largest district of Azad Kashmir by area.
The Neelum District was part of the Muzaffarabad District until 2005.
The Neelum Valley is 144 kilometres (89 mi) long.
The Neelum Valley was known before the partition as Kishanganga and was subsequently renamed for the village of Neelam.
The Noor Mahal, Sadiq Ghar Palace, and Darbar Mall were built during the reign of the Nawabs.
The Northern Areas has fifth of the world's seventeen highest peaks along with highest range of mountains the Karakoram and Himalayas.
The OCHA initiated rescue operations, launched a $550 million fundraising appeal and conducted environmental assessments.
The Objectives Resolution of March 1949 marked the initial step towards this goal, affirming God as the sole sovereign.
The PAF engaged with Soviet and Afghan Air Forces during the conflict.
The PAF's fighter pilots participated in missions against Israel during the Six-Day War and the Yom Kippur War.
The PAF, Marines, and the Navy had little presence in the region.
The PML(N) has a limited support due to its centre-right agenda.
The PPP was followed by conservative Pakistan Muslim League (N) (PML (N)), and over the next decade the leaders of the two parties fought for power, alternating in office.
The Pakistan Academy of Letters actively promotes literature and poetry both domestically and internationally.
The Pakistan Armed Forces were unable to counter such threats.
The Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission (PAEC) oversees these plants, while the Pakistan Nuclear Regulatory Authority ensures their safe operation.
The Pakistan Fisherfolk Forum estimates that 14,400 people from the delta coast, majority of them fishermen, are amongst those that have left.
The Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation is the responsible authority for the support and development of the mining industry.
The Pakistan Super League ranks among the top T20 leagues globally.
The Pakistan government has curbed expansion of mega project due to mounting debt on country's exchequer.
The Pakistan government's official chronology claims this as the time when the foundation of Pakistan was laid.
The Pakistani diaspora, numbering over seven million, is the sixth largest in the world.
The Pakistani economy has shifted from agriculture to services, with agriculture contributing only 20.9% of the GDP as of 2015.
The Pakistani government has debated granting provincial status to Gilgit-Baltistan.Gilgit-Baltistan has been a member state of the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization since 2008.
The Pakistani government's official death toll as of November 2005 stood at 87,350, although it is estimated that the death toll could have reached over 100,000.
The Pakistan–India ceasefire line runs from the Karakoram Pass west-southwest to a point about 130 kilometres northwest of Lahore.
The Pallo (Sable fish), a marine fish, ascends the Indus annually from February to April to spawn.
The Pamir Highway in Central Asia already provides Tajikistan access to Kashgar via the Kulma Pass.
The Pamir Mountains are to the north, and the Hindu Kush lies to the west.
The Panjnad River (Urdu: پنجند, Saraiki: پنجنَںد), also locally known as Panjnand (پنجنںد), is a river at the extreme end of the Bahawalpur district in the Punjab province of Pakistan.
The Panjnad River is formed by the successive confluence or merger of the five main rivers of Punjab: the Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, Beas and Sutlej.
The Parthian Empire fought for control of passes such as this to profit from the trade in silk, jade, rhubarb, and other luxuries moving from China to Western Asia and Europe.
The Parthians were ousted from Swat by the Kushans, based in the Peshawar valley.
The Pashtun nationalist Awami National Party based in the province demanded that the province name be changed to "Pakhtunkhwa".
The Pashtuns mainly inhabit the north of Balochistan and form the majority in Quetta.
The Pass became widely known to thousands of Westerners and Japanese who traveled it in the days of the hippie trail, taking a bus or car from Kabul to the Afghan border.
The Persian phrase mahi khoran (fish eaters) has become the modern name of the coastal region of Makran.
The Pharwala Fort, which was built by an ancient Hindu civilisation, is on the outskirts of the city.
The Pirrang (large tiger cat or fishing cat) of the eastern desert region is also disappearing.
The Port of Karachi, Pakistan's largest and busiest seaport lies on the coast of the sea.
The President of AJK is the constitutional head of state, while the Prime Minister, supported by a Council of Ministers, is the chief executive.
The Prince indulged in terrorist activities without any assistance from others.
The Provinces and administrative territories of Pakistan are subdivided into administrative "divisions", Divisional Commissioner is the administrative head of a division.
The Provincial Assembly is a unicameral legislature, which consists of 145 members elected to serve for a constitutionally bounded term of five years.
The Provincial Assembly of Sindh is a unicameral and consists of 168 seats, of which 5% are reserved for non-Muslims and 17% for women.
The Provincial Assembly of the Punjab is a unicameral legislature of elected representatives of the province of Punjab, which is located in Lahore in eastern Pakistan.
The Provisional Government of Bangladesh allied with neighbouring India which intervened in the final two weeks of the war and secured the surrender of Pakistan's eastern command.
The Punjab bore the brunt of the civil unrest following partition, with casualties estimated to be in the millions.
The Punjab government decided in 2005 to replace two-stroke three-wheelers with CNG-fitted four-stroke rickshaws in Lahore, Multan, Faisalabad, Rawalpindi and Gujranwala.
The Punjab played a major role in the war effort of World War II, and a large proportion of these soldiers came from the Pothohar as well as the Salt Range.
The Punjab region was the site of one of the earliest cradle of civilisations, the Bronze Age Harrapan civilisation that flourished from about 3000 B.C.
The Punjab was a region straddling India and the Afghan Durrani Empire.
The Punjab was home to several Sufi saints, and Sufism is well established in the region.
The Punjab with its rich farmlands became one of the most important colonial assets.
The Rai and Limbu women wear big gold earrings and nose rings to show their wealth through their jewelry.
The Raja's army had included war elephants, but these had posed little problem for the Muslim invaders, who had dealt with them during the conquest of Persia.
The Ramsar Convention on wetland protection was signed in Ramsar, Iran in 1971.
The Ravi River in this reach flows in a gorge with a river bed slope of 183 feet per mile (34.7 m/km) and is mostly fed by snowmelt, as this region lies in a rain shadow.
The Ravi River originates in the Himalayas in the Multhan tehsil of Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh, India.
The Ravi River, a transboundary river of India and Pakistan, is an integral part of the Indus River Basin and forms the headwaters of the Indus basin.
The Ravi River[a] is a transboundary river in South Asia, flowing through northwestern India and eastern Pakistan, and is one of five major rivers of the Punjab region.
The Ravi was known as Purushni or Irawati to Indians in Vedic times and as Hydraotes (Ancient Greek: 'ϒδραώτης) and Hyarotis (Ὑαρῶτις) to the Ancient Greeks.
The Registan Desert is migrating westward, encroaching on former agricultural areas.
The Reporters Without Borders has indicated pressure faced by Pakistani reporters, particularly when reporting against the military or government.
The Rigveda describes several rivers, including one named "Sindhu".
The Rigvedic "Sindhu" is thought to be the present-day Indus River.
The Rigvedic hymns apply a feminine gender to all the rivers mentioned therein, except for the Brahmaputra.
The Saidu Sharif Airport at Kanju is a stone throw from Mingora, adding much to the tourism in the past.
The Salt Range contains the great mines of Khewra, Kalabagh and Warcha which yield vast supplies of salt.
The Salt Range contains the great mines of Mayo, Khewra Salt Mine, Warcha and Kalabagh, which yield vast supplies of salt.
The Salt Range in the Potwar Plateau has large deposits of rock salt.
The Salt Range is a hill system in the Punjab province of Pakistan, deriving its name from its extensive deposits of rock salt.
The Salt Range is the youngest and the most southern part of the western Himalayan Ranges in Pakistan.
The Salt Range starts from the Bakralla and Tilla Jogian ridges in the east and extends to the west of River Jhelum.
The Saltoro Ridge originates in the north from the Sia Kangri peak on the China border in the Karakoram range.
The Sambaksar Lake is larger than Dharamsar Lake and even in August/September, the lake's water is not entirely melted.
The Samma civilization contributed significantly to the evolution of the Indo-Islamic architectural style.
The Sammas have left a mark on Sindh with magnificent structures in Thatta.
The Sammas overthrew the Soomras soon after 1335 and established the Sindh Sultanate.
The Sanskrit name for the river is Vitástā, derived from an apocryphal legend regarding the origin of the river in the Nilamata Purana.
The Sat Sar Mala Lakes are a rare destination in the LDNP, with five of the seven lakes forming cascades.
The Shah Allah Ditta Caves are also part of its ancient history.
The Shahis built an extensive array of temples and other architectural buildings, of which ruins remain today.
The Shaksgam tract was ceded by Pakistan to China following the signing of the Sino-Pakistani Frontier Agreement in 1963.
The Shangla district is the only district of Pakistan that composed of more than 80% of forest land.
The Sharmai Hydropower Project is a proposed power generation project located in the Upper Dir District of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa on the Panjkora River with an installed capacity of 150MW.
The Shell Oil Company and Pakistan Petroleum tapped 7 gas fields in the 1960s.
The Shia population in Pakistan was estimated at 42 million in 2019.
The Shigar is formed from the melted water of the Baltoro Glacier and Biafo Glacier.
The Shigar is the main right-bank tributary of the Indus in the Skardu Valley.
The Shimshal Pass (which does not cross an international border) is the only other pass still in regular use.
The Shina people of Phullwei claim to have originally come from Nait near Chilas in Gilgit-Baltistan.
The Shri Hinglaj Mata mandir which is the largest Hindu pilgrimage centre in Pakistan is situated in Balochistan.
The Shri Ramapir Temple in Tandoallahyar whose annual festival is the second largest Hindu pilgrimage in Pakistan is in Sindh.
The Shyok in turn joins the 3000 kilometre-long Indus River which flows through Pakistan.
The Shyok, Shigar and Gilgit rivers carry glacial waters into the main river.
The Siachen Glacier (76 km (47 mi) long) and Biafo Glacier (63 km (39 mi) long) are the second- and third-longest glaciers outside the polar regions.
The Sial dynasty was established by the 13 Sial Chief Nawab Walidad Khan Sial in 1723.
The Sibi Division, which was carved out of Quetta Division and Kalat Division in 1974, derives its name from Rani Sewi, the queen of the Sewa dynasty.
The Sibi division carved out of Quetta division still derives its name from Rani Sewi, the queen of the Hindu Sewa dynasty.
The Sikh Empire annexed the lower parts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region following advances from the armies of Hari Singh Nalwa.
The Sikh Empire invaded Jhang multiple times from 1801 to 1816 and annexed by the dynasty; Ahmad Khan Sial was awarded a Jagir by Ranjit Singh.
The Sikh Empire ruled Punjab from 1799 until the British annexed it in 1849 following the First and Second Anglo-Sikh Wars.
The Sikh Empire ruled the Punjab until the British annexed it in 1849 following the First and Second Anglo-Sikh Wars.
The Sindh Board of Revenue continues to manage 272,485 hectares (673,330 acres, 44%) of the area.
The Sindh Environmental Protection Agency has ordered polluting factories around the river to shut down under the Pakistan Environmental Protection Act, 1997.
The Sindh Muslim League exploited the issue and agitated for the return of the mosque to Muslims.
The Sindhi phekari, red lynx or Caracal cat, is found in some areas.
The Sindhu Darshan Festival is held on every Guru Purnima on the banks of the Indus.
The Sino-Myanmar pipelines have also been constructed by China to address this so-called "Malacca dilemma".
The Sivapithecus indicus fossil skull of an extinct ape species was discovered in Potohar plateau.
The Soomra dynasty was a local Sindhi Muslim dynasty that ruled between early 11th century and the 14th century.
The Soomras appear to have established themselves as a regional power in this power vacuum.
The State of Swat became a princely state under British suzerainty as part of the British Raj in 1918.
The Straits of Malacca provide China with its shortest maritime access to Europe, Africa, and the Middle East.
The Sub-Himalayan tectonic plate is sometimes referred to as the Cis-Himalayan tectonic plate in the older literature.
The Subah of Lahore was one of the three subahs (provinces) of the Mughal Empire in the Punjab region, alongside Multan and Delhi subahs, encompassing the northern, central and eastern Punjab.
The Sukkur Barrage serves over 20,000 km2 (7,700 sq mi).
The Sulaiman Mountains Range[a] are a north–south extension of the southern Hindu Kush mountain system in western Pakistan and eastern Afghanistan.
The Sulaiman Mountains dominate the northeast corner and the Bolan Pass is a natural route into Afghanistan towards Kandahar.
The Sulaiman Mountains dominate the northeast corner, and the Bolan Pass is a natural route into Afghanistan towards Kandahar.
The Sulaimans were formed as a fold and thrust belt as the Indian Plate collided into Eurasian Plate beginning about 30 million years ago.
The Sultanate included regions of southern and central Punjab and some areas of present-day Khyber.
The Sultanate of Swat was the last Dardic state that existed in the Swat valley between 12th and 16th centuries.
The Sumerian trading partners of Magan are identified with Makran.
The Supreme Court of Pakistan further issued a stay order against the allotment of land to PSA on account of a public petition.
The Sutlej River also exposes a double inverted metamorphic gradient.
The Sutlej River also formed the eastern boundary of the Sikh Empire under Maharajah Ranjit Singh.
The Sutlej River[a] or the Satluj River is a major river in Asia, flowing through China, India and Pakistan, and is the longest of the five major rivers of the Punjab region.
The Sutlej exits the valley near Ropar, where it enters the Punjab Plains.
The Sutlej river, however, is mostly on the Indian side of the border.
The Sutlej was the main medium of transportation for the kings of that time.
The Sutlej, along with all of the Punjab rivers, is thought to have drained east into the Ganges prior to 5 mya.
The Swat River referred to as the Suvāstu in the Rig Veda, with a literal meaning "of fair dwellings".
The Swat Valley is enclosed by mountains that forms a natural geographic boundary for it.
The TDA was dissolved in 1969 by the Government of Punjab.
The Talpurs succeeded the Kalhoras and four branches of the dynasty were established.
The Tang-era Chinese monk Xuanzang recorded the decline of Buddhism in the region, and ascendance of Hinduism in the region.
The Terms of Reference were set and also the time for submission of the report.
The Tethys Himalaya is an approximately 100-km-wide synclinorium formed by strongly folded and imbricated, weakly metamorphosed sedimentary series.
The Thal Desert is located in Bhakkar District of Pakistan between the Indus and Jhelum rivers.
The Thal Desert is located in northeastern Pakistan between the Indus and Jhelum rivers.
The Thal Desert's rainfall patterns are low and erratic with mean annual values ranging between 150 and 350mm.
The Thal Game Reserve is estimated to host over 2.5 million birds from 55 different species.
The Thal Settlement project arose as a solution to this issue with plans to settle a number of refugees into the sparsely populated Thal Desert.
The Thal desert (Punjabi: تَھل صحرا, romanized: Thal Sahrā'h; Urdu: صحرائے تھل, romanized: Sehrā-é-Thal) is situated at 31°10' N and 71°30' E in the province of Punjab, Pakistan.
The Thal desert has also seen severe erosion to its natural vegetation as a result of anthropogenic activities such as human settlement and land cultivation, which led to desertification.
The Thal desert is a subtropical sandy region with severe climatic conditions that are prone to temperature extremes.
The Thal desert is deficit in resources and infrastructure with very limited health services, schools, electricity, water and sanitation.
The Thal desert of Pakistan lies at altitudes above sea levels of approximately 200m in the north which gradually decrease to around 120m in the south.
The Thar Desert (Hindi pronunciation: [t̪ʰaːɾ]), also known as the Great Indian Desert, is an arid region in the north-western part of the Indian subcontinent stretching across India and Pakistan.
The Thar Desert in the province of Sindh is separated in the south from the salt flats of the Rann of Kachchh (Kutch) by a boundary that was first delineated in 1923–1924.
The Thar Desert is one of the most widely populated deserts in the world, with the Thar people inhabiting the area.
The Thar Desert is the most widely populated desert in the world, with a population density of 83 people per km2.
The Thar Desert spans 446 square kilometers and covers large areas of both Pakistan and India.
The Thar Desert spans an area of 175,000 square kilometers and covers large areas of Pakistan and India.
The Thar Desert, also known as the Great Indian Desert, is a large, arid region in the northwestern part of the Indian subcontinent that forms a natural boundary between India and Pakistan.
The Thar is one of the most heavily populated desert areas in the world with the main occupations of its inhabitants being agriculture and animal husbandry.
The Thar people are the natives of the area.
The Thar region of Rajasthan is a major opium production and consumption area.
The Thari cow breed originated from Tharparkar, Sindh.
The Tibetan Plateau contains the world's third-largest store of ice.
The Treaty allocates the waters of Chenab to Pakistan.
The Tribunal is further examining the matter.
The Tribunal submitted its report on 30 January 1987.
The Tsho Rolpa glacier lake in the Rowaling Valley, in the Dolakha District of Nepal, is rated as the most dangerous.
The Tughlaq dynasty's reign formally started in 1320 in Delhi when Ghazi Malik assumed the throne under the title of Ghiyath al-Din Tughluq after defeating Khusrau Khan at the Battle of Lahrawat.
The Tulaja fort is located on a huge rock outcropping with sheer cliffs overlooking the shrine of Kacchianwalla and the Punjab plains.
The Turis, being Shias, never liked Afghan rule.
The Turk Shahis ruled Gandhara until 870, when they were overthrown by the Hindu Shahis.
The Turkic Ghaznavids in the tenth century attacked the regions of Punjab.
The UN is currently seeking strategies to return the nomads to their traditional livelihood of raising livestock in Registan.
The UN's Food and Agriculture Organisation estimates 2.2% of the total land of Pakistan is covered by forests.
The UNEP team observed sand dunes nearly 50 feet (15 meters) high blocking roads, forcing residents to establish new routes.
The UNICEF distributed school kits for 140,000 children, established 70 child-friendly spaces and reopened 487 schools.
The US State Department has set up three high-quality air quality monitoring stations at three locations in Pakistan.
The USGS deputed the surveyor, Worth Condrick, for the survey, who identified Gwadar as a suitable site for a seaport.
The Ujh River is another major tributary of the Ravi River.
The United Nations Development Programme coordinated responses, rebuilt shelters, schools and health facilities.
The United Nations Environment Programme team reports that "up to 100 villages have been submerged by windblown dust and sand".
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees managed 37 camps, distributing tents, blankets and supplies.
The United Nations Humanitarian Air Service delivered 28,000 tons of relief supplies to remote areas using helicopters.
The United Nations Population Fund deployed nine mobile medical units, provided reproductive health services for one million people and focused on pregnant women and children.
The United Nations was involved in resolving the conflict, leading to a ceasefire in 1949 and the establishment of the Line of Control (LoC) as a de facto border.
The United States, Turkey, and China maintain close military relations with Pakistan Armed Forces, regularly exporting military equipment and technology transfer.
The University of Geneva and the University of Tehran conducted a joint study on the attractive features of this coastal strip of Iran and Balochistan, in which 36 rock formations were observed.
The Upper Indus Plain starts from northern Pakistan and ends up at Mithankot.
The Upper Sutlej Valley, called Langqên Zangbo in Tibet, was once known as the Garuda Valley by the Zhangzhung, the ancient civilization of western Tibet.
The Valley of Peshawar (Pashto: د لوی پېښور وادي; Urdu: وادئ پشاور) is a broad area situated in the central part of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.
The Valley of Swat is delineated by natural geographic boundaries, and is centered on the Swat River.
The Varendra Research Museum in Rajshahi was an important center of research on the Indus Valley civilisation.
The WAM scenario introduces a far more ambitious strategy for reducing emissions.
The WWF is working on conservation methods to alleviate the Indus delta's shortage of freshwater.
The Warsak Dam is also in the Valley of Peshawar in Pakistan, approximately 20 km northwest of the city of Peshawar.
The Warsak Dam on the Kabul River near Peshawar is smaller.
The Wazirs and other tribes, taking advantage of instability on the frontier, continued to resist British occupation until 1920 – even after Afghanistan had signed a peace treaty with the British.
The World Food Programme provided emergency food, including high-energy biscuits.
The World Health Organization delivered medical equipment, health kits and set up a disease early warning system.
The World Wild Fund report that between 2000 and 2010 Pakistan has lost 43,000 hectares of land every year.
The Yangtze is the only river contributing more plastic.
The Yuezhi nomads had driven the Sakas from the highlands of Central Asia, and were themselves forced southwards by the nomadic Xiongnu.
The Zanskar River, which flows into the Indus in Ladakh, has a greater volume of water than the Indus itself before that point.
The Zhangzhung built a towering palace in the Upper Sutlej Valley called Kyunglung, the ruins of which still exist today near the village of Moincêr, southwest of Mount Kailash (Mount Ti-se).
The Zhob River is used to irrigate the land in northern Balochistan along with the Gomal River, making the fertile soil available for agriculture.
The Zhob River originates in the Kan Mehtarzai range (Tsari Mehtarzai Pass) near Muslim Bagh.
The Zila Nazim used to be the executive head of the District Administration until 2010 when the government gave their powers to the District Coordination Officers also.
The above information was calculated in 2009.
The accumulation zone alone contributes to 68% of the glacier's total area.
The action was followed by a "sanitization operation" in the area.
The active part of the delta is 6,000 km2 in area (2,300 sq mi).
The administration of the Kurram Valley was finally rendered to British authorities, at the request of the Turis themselves, in 1890.
The administrative boss of the province who is in charge of the bureaucracy is the Chief Secretary Sindh, who is appointed by the Prime Minister of Pakistan.
The advent of Islam in present-day Pakistan marked the cessation of Buddhist architecture, ushering in Islamic architecture.
The age of these sediments ranges from Late Permian to Eocene.
The agricultural output of the Punjab region in Pakistan contributes significantly to Pakistan's GDP.
The air is generally very dry; consequently, the daily and annual range of temperature is quite large.
The alliance was solidified with a marriage between Chandragupta Maurya and a princess of the Seleucid Empire.
The allocation was challenged in the Supreme Court by Haryana.
The amendment's signing abolished the Federally Administered Tribal Areas as a separate political entity and merged them into the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
The amount of yearly rainfall increases from west to east along the southern front of the range.
The ancient Greeks also regarded the river as a god, as they did most mountains and streams.
The ancient Greeks referred to the region as Pentapotamía (Greek: Πενταποταμία), of the same meaning as that of Punjab.
The ancient Greeks referred to the region as Pentapotamía (Greek: Πενταποταμία), which has the same meaning as that of Punjab.
The ancient Iranians referred to everything east of the river Indus as hind.
The ancient artwork of Buddhism includes the giant rock-carved statues called the Bamiyan Buddhas, in the southern and western end of the Hindu Kush.
The ancient university was documented by the invading forces of Alexander the Great and was also recorded by Chinese pilgrims in the 4th or 5th century CE.
The annual festival is attended by 20,000 to 30,000 people and is organized by a committee of leading Hindus from Sindh and Balochistan.
The annual flow in India up to the final crossing point in Pakistan is 11.52 million acre-feet (14.21 cubic kilometres) (MAF) out of which 6.971 MAF is available upstream of Madhopur headworks.
The annual gathering at Hinglaj is a rare display of inter-communal harmony, with local Baloch Muslims traditionally supporting and protecting the pilgrimage as part of the area's cultural heritage.
The annual rainfall averages about seven inches, falling mainly during July and August.
The annual rainfall in its region is estimated to be 462 ml (16.3 imp fl oz; 15.6 US fl oz).
The annual rate of growth of the gross domestic product per capita was 4.4% in West Pakistan versus 2.6% in East Pakistan from 1960 to 1965.
The apple produced here is consumed in Pakistan as well as exported to other countries.
The appointment of a military administrator was considered quite difficult and challenging with the crisis continually deteriorating.
The archaeologists of the project have also found two human footprints over one million years old here, preserved in sands.
The archipelago is a union territory and is governed by the Union Government of India.
The area eventually came under the control of the Hindu Shahi dynasty of Kabul.
The area fell subsequently under the rule of Ahmad Shah Durrani, founder of the Durrani Empire, following a grand nine-day long assembly of leaders, known as the loya jirga.
The area is also known for Himalayan brown bears and snow leopards, although sightings are rare.
The area is also underlain by Quaternary fluvial and eolian deposits over 350m thick in southern areas, and even thicker in the central region of the desert.
The area of Karachi was known to the ancient Greeks.
The area to the southeast on the Pakistani side of the Pakistan-India border is called the Cholistan Desert and, on the Indian side, the Thar Desert.
The area was declared as a national park in 1993.
The area's population, swelled by recently demobilised soldiers following World War II, rebelled against the maharaja's forces and gained control of almost the entire district.
The areas of Gilgit, Chitral and Hunza had already become independent of the Maqpons.
The areas to the east and west of the Siachen region have already been declared national parks: the Karakoram Wildlife Sanctuary in India and the Central Karakoram National Park in Pakistan.
The armed forces of East Pakistan also consisted of the paramilitary organisation, the Razakars from the intelligence unit of the ISI's Covert Action Division (CAD).
The armed forces of Pakistan extended their major offensive against Al-Qaeda and Taliban elements in FATA dubbed Operation Rah-e-Nijat to Kurram in December 2009.
The arrival of the Parthians began the long tradition of Greco-Buddhist art.
The ascent is controversial because Lacedelli and Compagnoni established their camp at a higher elevation than originally agreed with Mehdi and Bonatti.
The ascent was made without oxygen, and Buhl is the only man to have made the first ascent of an 8,000-metre (26,000 ft) peak alone.
The attack occurred at around 1 AM and was claimed by a local branch of the Taliban (Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan).
The average annual rainfall in the Islamabad area is 1,457 millimetres (57.4 in).
The average elevation of Swat is 980 m (3,220 ft), resulting in a considerably cooler and wetter climate compared to the rest of Pakistan.
The average winter snowfall is more than 1000 cm (35 ft) and temperatures can dip to −50 °C (−58 °F).
The backbone of Cholistan economy is animal rearing.
The bark of a Callicarpa arborea is used for skin ailments.
The base camp is also located on the Pakistani side.
The basin contains the largest amount of perennial glacial ice outside of the polar regions.
The battle is thought to be resulted in a decisive Greek victory; however, A.
The battle is thought to have resulted in a decisive Greek victory; however, A.
The bazaars in the province are renowned throughout Pakistan.
The beach adjacent to Kand Malir on the last corner of Hangul National Park, also known as 'Virgin Beach', was added to the list of Asia's 50 Most Beautiful Beaches in 2018.
The beauty and climate of the valley attracted some of the Mughal emperors of Delhi, and the remains exist of a garden planted by Shah Jahan.
The berth project represents the only direct investment in port infrastructure mentioned in the May 2016 agreements.
The biggest river flowing into the sea is the Indus River.
The birds feed on the large variety of insects found in the desert.
The borders of the park were mapped by George Schaller of the Wildlife Conservation Society in 1974, after a short field survey.
The boundaries of the region are ill-defined and focus on historical accounts and thus the geographical definition of the term "Punjab" has changed over time.
The boundary between the North American Plate and the Eurasian Plate in the region around Japan has been described as "shifty".
The bridges in Muzaffarabad were not damaged except for a pedestrian suspension bridge north of the city which collapsed.
The bulk of the Rigveda was composed in the Punjab region between circa 1500 and 1200 BCE, while later Vedic scriptures were composed more eastwards, between the Yamuna and Ganges rivers.
The cab drivers are reliable and will take passengers to any destination required.
The camel's leather is also utilized in making caps, goblets, and expensive lampshades.
The canal shall be completed by August 1986.
The capital and largest city is Lahore which was the capital of the wider Punjab region since 17th century.
The capital city, Quetta, is located in a densely populated portion of the Sulaiman Mountains in the northeast of the province.
The capital of Sindhu-Sauvīra was named Roruka and Vītabhaya or Vītībhaya, and corresponds to the mediaeval Arohṛ and the modern-day Rohṛī.
The carvings were left by invaders, traders, and pilgrims who passed along the trade route, as well as by locals.
The case is considered significant in the history of human rights-based climate litigation.
The catchment area of the Indus is estimated at almost 1 million square kilometres, and all of Pakistan's major rivers—the Kabul, Jhelum, and Chenab—flow into it.
The cave also have Buddhist-era murals dating to at least 2400 before present.
The cave has seven alcoves of different sizes for lamps which are still conserved today.
The central Hindu Kush peaks rise to over 6,800 m (22,300 ft), and this section has numerous spurs between the Khawak Pass in the east and the Durāh Pass in the west.
The central government only controlling foreign affairs, defence and currency, while the MKA was sidelined.
The centrally located metropolis Dacca witnessed significant urban growth.
The ceremonial head of the province is the Governor, who is appointed on the advice of the Chief Minister of Balochistan by the President of Pakistan.
The ceremony was also marked the transfer of the concession agreement from the PSA to the COPHC.
The change of the relative speed between the Indian and Asian plates from very fast (18-19.5 cm/yr) to fast (4.5 cm/yr) at about 55 Ma is circumstantial support for collision then.
The cheer pheasant, indigenous to the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, was being reared in Margalla Hills as a part of conservation campaign by the World Pheasant Association and Capital Development Authority.
The chief Cholistani ceramic articles are their sarahies (jugs), piyalas (cups), and glasses, remarkable for their lightness and fine finishing.
The chief inhabitants are the Chhutto people of the Samma tribe, alongside various Sindhi and Balochi tribes who subsist by flock grazing.
The chief ornaments made and worn by them are Nath (nosegay), Katmala (necklace) Kangan (bracelet), and Pazeb (anklets).
The chinkara is the only animal found in significant numbers in Cholistan, with a few nilgai along the Pakistan–India border and in some parts of Cholistan.
The city is also near the ancient site of Uch Sharif which was once a Delhi Sultanate stronghold.
The city is known as the "Fruit Garden of Pakistan" due to its numerous fruit orchards and the wide variety of fresh and dried fruits produced in the region.
The city is near the Bolan Pass, which was on a major gateway from Central Asia to South Asia.
The city is the most populous and comprises more than one-eighth of the province's population.
The city of Bahawalpur is located near the Cholistan and Thar deserts.
The city of Multan became a centre of Islam.
The city of Sheikhupura also has a number of sites from the Mughal Empire, including the World Heritage-listed Rohtas Fort near Jhelum.
The city of Thatta is famous for its necropolis of erstwhile royals, the Makli Necropolis, which covers 10 square km on the Makli Hill.
The city saw a severe drought from 1999 to 2001 during which the city did not receive snowfall and below normal rains.
The city was conquered after a fierce battle.
The city's famous Mahabat Khan, built in 1630 in the Jeweller's Bazaar, was badly damaged and desecrated by the Sikhs, who also rebuilt the Bala Hissar fort during their occupation of Peshawar.
The climate has significant impact on the economy of Punjab, particularly for agriculture in the region.
The climate in the capital city of Islamabad varies from an average daily low of 2 °C (35.6 °F) in January to an average daily high of 38 °C (100 °F) in June.
The climate in the capital city of Islamabad varies from an average daily low of 2 °C in January to an average daily high of 38 °C in June.
The climate is arid, the region only receives between 25 and 50 centimetres (9.8 and 19.7 in) of rainfall in a normal year.
The climate is dry with little rainfall.
The climate of Gilgit-Baltistan varies from region to region, since the surrounding mountain ranges create sharp variations in weather.
The climate of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa varies immensely for a region of its size, encompassing most of the many climate types found in Pakistan.
The climate of Northern Pakistan is much colder than that of the rest of the country, and it has many glaciers and ice-capped mountains, earning it the nickname "Earth's 3rd pole".
The climate of the delta is described as arid.
The climate of the upper highlands is characterised by very cold winters and hot summers.
The climate ranges from tropical at the base of the mountains to permanent ice and snow at the highest elevations.
The climate varies from tropical to temperate, with arid conditions in the coastal south.
The climate varies from tropical to temperate.
The climatic changes and global warming are the most alarming issues risking millions of lives across the country.
The coalition further tried to prohibit male doctors from performing ultrasounds on women, and tried to close the province's cinemas.
The coastal settlements extended from Sutkagan Dor at the Pakistan-Iran border to Kutch in modern Gujarat, India.
The coastal strip and the creeks abound in semi-aquatic and aquatic plants and the inshore Indus delta islands have forests of Avicennia tomentosa (timmer) and Ceriops candolleana (chaunir) trees.
The coastline has a number of lagoons and bays.
The coastline is also home to the Peelu tree (Salvadora persica) that protects Manora's coast from erosion.
The cold water of this stream flows towards the east, into the River Chitral.
The colder air of Central Asia is prevented from blowing down into South Asia by the physical configuration of the Himalayas.
The collective action of local residents, government agencies, and NGOs was instrumental in providing immediate relief and setting the stage for long-term recovery and reconstruction.
The collision between these two plates occurs in northwest Pakistan, particularly in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
The collision of India with Eurasia closed the Neo-Tethys Ocean.
The combination of the Sutlej and Chenab rivers in the plains of Punjab forms the Panjnad, which finally flows into the Indus River at Mithankot.
The combined stream runs southwest for approximately 44 miles and joins the Indus River at Mithankot.
The company also plans to build an international airport and power plant for Gwadar.
The completion of Satpara Dam downstream of the lake has enlarged the size of Satpara Lake.
The complex was the most important centre for Hindu jogis in Punjab prior to 1947, and had housed hundreds of ascetics.
The complexity of the monsoon of South Asia is not completely understood, making it difficult to accurately predict the quantity, timing, and geographic distribution of the accompanying precipitation.
The composite petroleum system in the Kohat-Potwar province is referred to as the Patala-Nammal Composite Total Petroleum System.
The concept of climate change has now been aligned with the risk of natural disasters and has increased awareness in the local communities.
The conference issued a "Sagarmatha Call for Action" to protect the region from climate change.
The connection between the Sindh and Islam was established by the initial Muslim invasions during the Rashidun Caliphate.
The constitution defined a division of powers between the central government and the provinces.
The construction of motorways began in the early 1990s, with the idea of building a world-class road network and reducing the load on the heavily used national highways throughout the country.
The contamination of fresh drinking water makes it harder for people to find clean water supplies and increases the prevalence of waterborne diseases.
The continued convergence of the Indian plate with the Eurasian plate results in mega earthquakes.
The contrast between these ranges is geologically interesting.
The control of the region was left to the Tibetan Empire.
The convergent boundary between the Eurasian plate and the Indian plate formed the Himalayas mountain range.
The core of Nanga Parbat is a long ridge trending southwest-to-northeast.
The country continues to face poverty, illiteracy, corruption, and terrorism.
The country currently relies heavily on imported wood-based products due to a lack of self-sufficiency in this sector, resulting in substantial resource expenditure.
The country has a relatively high, although declining, growth rate supported by high birth rates and low death rates.
The country was finally annexed and dissolved at the end of the Second Anglo-Sikh War in 1849 into separate princely states and the province of Punjab.
The country's urban population more than tripled between 1981 and 2017 (from 23.8 million to 75.7 million), as Pakistan's urbanisation rate rose from 28.2% to 36.4%.
The course of the Neelum River was altered by the landslides and the surface rupture.
The creation of Pakistan was never fully accepted by many British leaders including Lord Mountbatten.
The critically endangered Himalayan subspecies of the brown bear is found sporadically across the range, as is the Asian black bear.
The cropland cover in 2000 was about 5.1% and about 5.4% in 2015.
The culture in Punjab grew out of the settlements along the five rivers, which served as an important route to the Near East as early as the ancient Indus Valley civilisation, dating back to 3000 BCE.
The culture, folktales, art and music of Sindh form a mosaic of human history.
The current Chief Minister is Maryam Nawaz Sharif, who is also the first ever woman Chief Minister of any province in Pakistan.
The current name gained currency during the Mughal period.
The currently active Indus River floodplain stretches > 20 km in width at the southern edges of the desert and the abandoned floodplain reaches even wider, covering areas of higher ground.
The cyclone claimed half a million lives.
The dam was built to supply agricultural irrigation water for the surrounding areas, flood control in the downstream region, and to provide drinking water for the city of Gwadar.
The damming of this river at Khajuri Kachh was envisaged as far back as 1898, even after its administrative approval by the Government of Pakistan in 1963.
The dams also generate electricity for heavy industries and urban centres.
The decision of this Tribunal will be rendered within six months and would be binding on both parties.
The deepest known point is in the Arabian Sea limits at a depth of 5,395 metres (17,700 ft).
The deepest parts of the Arabian Sea are in the Alula-Fartak Trough on the western edge of the Arabian Sea off the Gulf of Aden.
The delta also used to have large pastures for livestock grazing.
The delta covers an area of about 41,440 km2 (16,000 sq mi), and is approximately 210 km (130 mi) across where it meets the sea.
The delta faces pollution both from sea and the Indus river.
The delta faces pollution from the Arabian Sea.
The delta falls within the districts of Thatta and Badin of the Sindh province.
The delta is home to the largest arid mangrove forests in the world, as well as many birds, fish and the Indus dolphin.
The delta of this proto-Indus River has subsequently been found in the Katawaz Basin, on the Afghan-Pakistan border.
The delta undergoes a natural subsidence process that ranges from a "sinking" of less than 1 mm/year to more than 10 mm/year.
The densities and sizes of these green patches increase from west to east, following an increase in rainfall.
The descendants of those Dardic people can be still found today, and are believed to have maintained their Dardic culture and Shina language up to the present time.
The desert climate is characterised by hot and very arid conditions.
The desert contains expanses of large sand dunes that are sometimes covered in snow during winter.
The desert contains large sand dunes that are sometimes covered in snow during the winters.
The desert has both a very dry part (the Marusthali region in the west) and a semidesert part (in the east) that has fewer sand dunes and slightly more precipitation.
The desert hosts an annual jeep rally, which draws many tourists.
The desert is also characterised by strong winds that blow year-round and can cause serious wind erosion that leads to local crop damage.
The desert is gradually encroaching on surrounding agricultural areas.
The desert is home to several animal and bird species.
The desert is in the center of a large empty basin.
The desert is very sparsely populated by Baluch and Pashtun nomads.
The desert largely consists of ridges of sand dunes and rolling sand plains which alternate with narrow valleys of flatter, more cultivable land.
The desert spans an area of 19500 square kilometers and is surrounded by northwestern scrub forests.
The desert stretches about 480 kilometres in length, with a width varying between 32 and 192 kilometres.
The desert stretches from the alluvial plains of the Indus River in the west and northwest, to the Great Rann of Kutch in the south.
The desert technically stretches from the Khaplu Valley to Nubra in Ladakh, but the largest desert area is found in Skardu and Shigar Valley.
The desert was used for nuclear testing by the Pakistan military, making it the most famous of the five deserts.
The deserts, high mountains and volcanoes along the coast add to the tourist attraction, but unlike other beaches in Pakistan, much of the tourist activity has not yet begun here.
The devastating 2022 floods were in part driven by glaciers melting.
The development of Pakistan is viewed as a multigenerational enterprise.
The development of Sufism in Sindh was similar to the development of Sufism in other parts of the Muslim world.
The dialects of the Pahari-Pothwari (a Punjabic dialect in of itself) language complex cover most of the territory of Azad Kashmir.
The disastrous effects of the cyclone caused huge resentment against the federal government.
The discrimination occurred despite the fact that East Pakistan generated a major share of Pakistan's exports.
The dispute was resolved with the intervention of the World Bank and a treaty was signed in 1960 on sharing of the Indus waters between India and Pakistan.
The district had a sex ratio of 104.83 males to 100 females and a literacy rate of 48.13%: 61.83% for males and 33.95% for females.
The district has a sex ratio of 107.51 males to 100 females and a literacy rate of 35.22%: 49.39% for males and 20.65% for females.
The district has a sex ratio of 117.57 males to 100 females and a literacy rate of 36.62%: 45.24% for males and 26.81% for females.
The district has an area of 3,310 km2 (1,280 sq mi); the population according to the 1998 census was 448,310.
The district of Sialkot excels in sports goods, surgical instruments and cutlery goods.
The districts are initially listed in alphabetical order, but they can be sorted in different ways by clicking the headers of the table.
The districts of Pakistan (Urdu: اِضلاعِ پاكِستان) are the third-level administrative divisions of Pakistan, below provinces and divisions, but forming the first-tier of local government.
The disturbed sediment also pollutes the water, affecting both aquatic ecosystems and human communities reliant on the river for drinking and irrigation.
The diverse landscape and climate in Pakistan support a wide range of trees and plants.
The dividing line between a mountain with multiple peaks and separate mountains is not always clear (see Highest unclimbed mountain).
The dominant limestone of the Margalla is mixed with sandstone and occasional minor beds of shale.
The donor expresses the wish that the religious merit gained by his gift be shared by him with the king and his family members.
The down side however is that when monsoon rains are weak, crop production is low leading to higher food prices with limited supply.
The drainage basin in India includes the states and union territories of Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Ladakh and Haryana.
The drought has become a frequent phenomenon in the country.
The drought of 1998-2002 is considered the worst drought in 50 years.
The dry bed of the Hakra River runs through the area, along which many settlements of the Indus Valley civilization/Harappan culture have been discovered, including the large urban site of Ganweriwal.
The dry, hot weather is broken occasionally by dust storms and thunderstorms that temporarily lower the temperature.
The dwarf palm, Acacia rupestris (kher), and Tecomella undulata (lohirro) trees are typical of the western hill region.
The dynamic theory explains the monsoon as a global weather phenomenon rather than just a local one.
The dynamic theory explains the monsoon on the basis of the annual shifts in the position of global belts of pressure and winds.
The earliest date back to between 5000 and 1000 BCE, showing single animals, triangular men and hunting scenes in which the animals are larger than the hunters.
The earliest evidence of human habitation in Punjab traces to the Soan valley of the Pothohar, where Soanian culture developed between 774,000 BC and 11,700 BC.
The earliest known notable local king of this region was known as King Porus, who fought the famous Battle of the Hydaspes against Alexander the Great.
The earliest known stone tools in the region, dating to the Lower Palaeolithic (~2 million years ago), were discovered in the Soan Valley of northern Pakistan.
The earliest mention of Astola is in Arrian's account of Admiral Nearchos, who was dispatched by Alexander the Great to explore the coast of the Arabian Sea and the Persian Gulf in 325 BC.
The earliest settlement at Taxila is found in the Hathial section, which yielded pottery shards that date from as early as the late 2nd millennium BCE to the 6th century BCE.
The early life of Chandragupta Maurya is not clear.
The early medieval period (642–1219 CE) witnessed the spread of Islam in the region.
The earthquake affected more than 500,000 families, and cold weather increased the death toll for those who survived the earthquake, but were displaced and homeless.
The earthquake caused significant psychological trauma for survivors who endured the sudden loss of family members, homes and livelihoods.
The earthquake had a maximum Modified Mercalli intensity of XI (Extreme) evaluated in an area around the epicentre, between the towns of Muzaffarabad and Balakot.
The earthquake occurred during a school day in the region, most students were at school when the earthquake struck.
The earthquake resulted in a 75 km (47 mi) surface rupture.
The earthquake was also felt in Afghanistan, Tajikistan, India and the Xinjiang region.
The earthquake was felt throughout central Asia, and as far away as Dushanbe, Tajikistan.
The eastern end of the Hindu Kush in the north merges with the Karakoram Range.
The eastern end of the Hindu Kush merges with the Karakoram Range.
The eastern end of the range, with the highest peaks, high snow accumulation allows to long-term water storage.
The eastern part has the moist zone of the western Himalayas, but going toward Karakoram and Hindu Kush, the climate gets considerably drier.
The eastern part of the delta was even more independent and controlled by the Sumra tribe until 1053 AD, when the region was brought under the control of the Khalji Delhi Sultanate by Alauddin Khalji.
The eastern side of Kangchenjunga is in the Indian state of Sikkim.
The eastern tip of the Wahan Corridor starts the Sino-Pak border between the People's Republic of China and Pakistan spanning about 559 km (347.3 mi).
The eastern wing consisted of East Bengal.
The economic significance of the monsoon is aptly described by Pranab Mukherjee's remark that the monsoon is the "real finance minister of India".
The economy is dominated by agriculture and the tourism industry.
The economy of East Pakistan grew at an average of 2.6% between 1960 and 1965.
The economy of Sindh is the largest in Pakistan and then comes the province of Punjab; its provincial capital Karachi is the most populous city in the country as well as its main financial hub.
The economy of the delta consists of agriculture and fishing.
The economy of the region is primarily based on a traditional trade route, the historic Silk Road.
The efforts of Jamaat-i-Islami and the ulama led to the passage of the Objectives Resolution in March 1949.
The eighth division, Loralai Division, was created by bifurcating Zhob Division.
The empire existed from 1799, when Ranjit Singh captured Lahore, to 1849, when it was defeated and conquered in the Second Anglo-Sikh War.
The endangered Kundal Shahi is native to the eponymous village and it is the only language not found outside Azad Kashmir.
The endangered green turtle (Chelonia mydas) and the hawksbill turtle (Eretmochelys imbracata) nest on the beach at the foot of the cliffs.
The entire Siachen Glacier, with all major passes, has been under the administration of India as part of the union territory of Ladakh since 1984.
The entire area is covered with the ruins of defensive walls, houses, and other structures made of large stone blocks.
The entire area was ruled by a host of kings who securely guarded their frontiers.
The entire journey spans 100 kilometers (62 miles), utilizing 51 kilometers (42 miles) of the Biafo Glacier and the entirety of the Hispar Glacier.
The entire left bank of the Indus River in Sind province is protected from river flooding by constructing around 600 km long levees.
The entire length of Budhil is 72 kilometres (45 mi) where it has a bed slope of 314 feet per mile (59.5 m/km).
The entire region has been subdivided into new smaller districts over the years.
The entire region is subject to desertification due to poor vegetation cover resulting in wind erosion.
The entire service, the Marines were deployed in East Pakistan, initially tasked with conducting exercises and combat operations in riverine areas and at the near shoreline.
The entrance to Karachi was once guarded against pirate raids by the Manora Fort built in the 1790s, which was later upgraded by the British, and then the Pakistan Navy.
The environmental issues is a great problem for the nature and nation of Pakistan and has been disturbing the balance between economic development and environmental protection.
The epic battles described in the Mahabharata are chronicled as being fought in what is now the state of Haryana and historic Punjab.
The epicentre of the earthquake was close to the city and destroyed most of the city's infrastructure, killing an estimated 40,000 people.
The eras of 1958–1971, 1977–1988, and 1999–2008 witnessed military coups, leading to martial law and military leaders governing de facto as presidents.
The estimated coastline of the Indus delta with the Arabian Sea (the maximum length in the direction of the coast) is approximated at 210 km (130 mi), 220 km, and 240 km (150 mi).
The estimated number of livestock in the desert areas is 1.6 million.
The estuaries in the Indus delta are spread across Sindh in Pakistan in the west and Gujarat in India in the east.
The ethnic group north of the pass consists of mainly Pashtuns, while to west, Balochis.
The exact criteria for a normal monsoon are defined by the India Meteorological Department with calculations for the mean and standard deviation of each of these variables.
The exhumation of eclogite and granulite rocks can be explained by several different models.
The exile government took oath on 17 April 1971 at Mujib Nagar, within East Pakistan territory of Kushtia district, and formally formed the government.
The expanded port will be located near a 2,282-acre free trade area in Gwadar which is being modelled on the lines of the Special Economic Zones of China.
The expedition was led by Ardito Desio, and the two climbers who reached the summit were Lino Lacedelli and Achille Compagnoni.
The extended empire was difficult to retain, and rebellions became commonplace all over the Indian subcontinent.
The extensive irrigation and dam projects provide the basis for Pakistan's large production of crops such as cotton, sugarcane and wheat.
The extensive linking of tributaries with the Indus has helped spread water resources to the valley of Peshawar, in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
The extremes of high altitude (low atmospheric pressure), combined with extreme cold, favor extremophile organisms.
The factors thought to affect climate change can exhibit variability too.
The famous Khyber Pass links the province to Afghanistan, while the Kohalla Bridge in Circle Bakote Abbottabad is a major crossing point over the Jhelum River in the east.
The famous folklore of Noori Jam Tamachi who was a fisherwoman, is connected to the lake.
The farmers of Punjab, Haryana, and Rajasthan will continue to get water not less than what they are using from the Ravi Beas system as on 1.7.1985.
The fastest way to travel was by air, but air travel was accessible only to a few privileged local people and to Pakistani military and civilian officials.
The fault itself is west of these ranges.
The federal government approved the construction of the port in December 1995 but the project could not get started because of shortage of funds.
The federal government invested more funds and foreign aid in West Pakistan, even though East Pakistan generated a major share of exports.
The fertility rate is 4.7 children per woman, which is the highest in Pakistan.
The fields of architecture, sculpture, terra cotta, and pottery developed greatly in this phase.
The fifth largest in the world, the Indus Delta is a designated wetland and Ramsar site, containing seventeen major creeks or estuaries and numerous minor creeks.
The figures for area and population are according to the statistics issued by the Planning and Development Department of the Government of Gilgit Baltistan.
The film won the Silver Lion at the Venice Film Festival of 1937.
The final phase would link 5 ft 6 in (1,676 mm) with Central Asian 1,520 mm (4 ft 11+27⁄32 in) Russian gauge.
The final push for the summit was dramatic: Buhl continued alone for the final 1,300 metres (4,300 ft), after his companions had turned back.
The fineness of the earth can be observed on the Kacha houses which are actually plastered with mud but look like they have been white washed.
The first British invasion of Afghanistan ended in disaster in 1842, when 16,000 British soldiers and camp followers were massacred as they retreated through the Hindu Kush back to India.
The first European visited Quetta in 1828, describing it as mud-walled fort surrounded by three hundred mud houses.
The first German expedition to Nanga Parbat was led by Willy Merkl in 1932.
The first Indo-Scythian king Maues established Saka hegemony by conquering Indo-Greek territories.
The first Islamic conquest of Makran took place during the Rashidun Caliphate in the year 643 CE .
The first West Eurasian empire to annex the Indus Valley was the Persian Empire, during the reign of Darius the Great.
The first climber to reach the summit of K2 twice was Czech climber Josef Rakoncaj.
The first conflict took place in Kashmir and ended in a United Nations-mediated ceasefire, with Pakistan gaining control of one-third of the region.
The first head office has been built in Gilgit City.
The first is the extreme altitude, which results in a significant reduction in available oxygen.
The first king Kallar had moved the capital into Udabandhapura from Kabul, in the modern village of Hund for its new capital.
The first model includes slab tear where the lower plate tore off into the mantle leading to high amounts of rebound.
The first movie produced in East Pakistan was The Face and the Mask in 1955.
The first of note being a goal of net-zero emissions by 2045.
The first people to observe the combined pattern of the monsoons' branches over different regions of South Asia were sailors in the Arabian Sea who traveled between Africa, India, and Southeast Asia.
The first phase of construction at Gwadar Port began in 2002, and was completed in 2006, before inauguration in 2007.
The first phase will stretch from the Chaman to Spin Boldak in Afghanistan.
The first railways in Pakistan were built from 1885.
The first successful democratic transition occurred in May 2013.
The first three (heading up from the last village before the glacier, the thousand-year-old Askole village) are the sites with flowing water nearby.
The first two territories are Pakistani-administered sectors of the wider Kashmir region.
The first woman to summit K2 was Polish climber Wanda Rutkiewicz on 23 June 1986.
The flood affected more than 20 million people exceeding the combined total of individuals affected by the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, the 2005 Kashmir earthquake and the 2010 Haiti earthquake.
The flood is considered as worst in Pakistan's history affecting people of all four provinces and Gilgit–Baltistan and Azad Kashmir region of Pakistan.
The flooding followed the previous year's floods, which devastated a large part of the country.
The flooding has been described as the worst since the 2010 Pakistan floods, which devastated the entire country.
The floods caused considerable damage; an estimated 434 civilians were killed, with 5.3 million people and 1,524,773 homes affected.
The floods have caused considerable damage; an estimated 270 civilians have been killed, with 5.3 million people and 1.2 million homes affected.
The floods killed around 500,000 of Balochistan's livestock and damaged cultivation and agricultural output in 32 out of 35 districts of the province.
The flora and fauna of the Himalayas vary with climate, rainfall, altitude, and soils.
The flora and fauna of the Siachen region are also affected by the huge military presence.
The flora includes the trees, shrubs, perennials, and herbs of the Himalayan Western Himalayan subalpine conifer forests and higher elevation Western Himalayan alpine shrub and meadows ecoregions.
The flow of the river is also determined by the seasons – it diminishes greatly in the winter while flooding its banks in the monsoon months from July to September.
The following 11 pages are in this category, out of 11 total.
The following 19 pages are in this category, out of 19 total.
The following is a list of floods in Pakistan.
The following is a list of undergraduate medical institutions recognised by Pakistan Medical and Dental Council (PMDC) as of 2013[update].
The following year, the party workers assembled at the house of Sardar Ibrahim on 19 July 1947, reversed the decision, demanding that the Maharaja accede to Pakistan.
The foothills of the Himalayas are found in the extreme north as well, and feature a much cooler and wetter climate, with snowfall common at higher altitudes.
The forces also recovered a cache of arms, explosives, and ammunition.
The foremost among these is Pahari–Pothwari (a dialect of Punjabi) with its various dialects.
The forests also provide for ecotourism and wildlife conservation purposes.
The former tehsil of Buner was granted the status of a separate district in 1991.
The fort is known for its large defensive walls and several monumental gateways.
The fort is one of the largest and most formidable in the subcontinent.
The fort was built to defend the region from the forces of the Pashtun king Sher Shah Suri.
The fort was constructed in such a way that it overlooked the entire city.
The fort was used to repel attacks by Qasimi pirates who threatened and sometimes raided Karachi Harbor in the early 19th century.
The fortress was built by Raja Todar Mal on the orders of Sher Shah Suri.
The founder of Pakistan Muhammad Ali Jinnah concluded his address with the slogan Pakistan Zindabad (Long Live Pakistan).
The fourth model includes the rocks being transported along the Main Himalayan Thrust.
The freight rate structure is based on market trends in road transport, which is the main competitor to rail transport.
The fusion of Buddhism and Greek influences birthed a distinctive Greco-Buddhist style from the 1st century CE, exemplified by the renowned Gandhara style.
The general election held in 2013 saw the PML (N) achieve victory, following which Nawaz Sharif was elected as Prime Minister for the third time.
The geodynamics of Central Asia is dominated by the interaction between the Eurasian plate and the Indian plate.
The geographical definition of the term "Punjab" has changed over time.
The geographical isolation of these regions made it challenging for rescue teams to provide timely assistance, leading to higher mortality rates in these hard-to-reach areas.
The geography of Northern Pakistan is mountainous and terrain differing in each part.
The geology of the Himalayas is one of the most dramatic and visible creations of the immense mountain range formed by plate tectonic forces and sculpted by weathering and erosion.
The glacier forms the source of the Braldo River, which joins the Shigar River, a tributary of the Indus.
The glacier is accessible from the Balti town of Skardu, the principal gateway to the Karakoram.
The glacier lies between the Saltoro Ridge immediately to the west and the main Karakoram range to the east.
The glacier was uninhabited before 1984, and the presence of thousands of troops since then has introduced pollution and melting to the glacier.
The glacier's melting waters are the main source of the Nubra River in the Indian region of Ladakh, which drains into the Shyok River.
The glacier's region is the highest battleground on Earth, where Pakistan and India have fought intermittently since April 1984.
The glacier's trough is notably wide, with small valley glaciers forming icefalls where they meet the main trunk.
The global climate change will affect the water resources and livelihoods of the Greater Himalayan region.
The goal of this scenario is to accelerate the journey toward achieving carbon neutrality before 2045.
The government and local non-governmental organizations (NGOs) coordinated relief efforts, distributing food, water and medical supplies.
The government invests heavily in information technology projects, focusing on e-government and infrastructure.
The government of India initiated departmental exploration for oil in 1955 and 1956 in the Jaisalmer area, Oil India Limited discovered natural gas in 1988 in the Jaisalmer basin.
The government of Pakistan also failed to invest in requisite infrastructure works.
The government recruited American architect Louis Kahn to design the national assembly complex in Dacca.
The governor and martial law administrator, Lieutenant-General Amir Abdullah Khan Niazi, was defamed, his image was maligned and he was stripped of his honours.
The great ranges of central Asia, including the Himalayas, contain the third-largest deposit of ice and snow in the world, after Antarctica and the Arctic.
The greater surrounding region is home to around two-thirds of the world's proven oil reserves.
The group, the Pak-Wheelers, had succeeded in 2011 in developing a car with a fuel efficiency of 450 kilometres per liter, but were trying to improve it to more than 700 by using hybrid technology.
The growing political power of the British in Bengal had not yet reached the territories of modern Pakistan.
The hardest part of the summer is then over, but cooler weather does not come until late October.
The head of the Tehsil government is "Tehsil Nazim" who is assisted by the tehsil Naib-Nazim.
The heads of various Central Asian republics have expressed their desire to connect their infrastructure networks to the CPEC project and Gwadar Port via China.
The headwaters of the Indus River and the Yarlung Tsangpo (later in its course, the Brahmaputra) flow along this suture zone.
The heat can lead to issues such as a strain on respiratory illnesses, heat stroke, and fever.
The height of K2 measured during this expedition was 8,609.02 metres (28,244.8 ft).
The height of the summit is 3,373 ft (1,028 m).
The high altitudes of the mountains have historical significance in South and Central Asia.
The high density of settlements in Cholistan suggest it may have been one of the most productive regions of the Indus Valley Civilization.
The high mountains to the north of the Tsangpo, including Gyala Peri, however, are also sometimes included in the Himalayas.
The higher regions of the Himalayas are snowbound throughout the year, in spite of their proximity to the tropics, and they form the sources of several large perennial rivers.
The highest known tree species in the Himalayas is Juniperus tibetica, located at 4,900 m (16,080 ft) in Southeastern Tibet.
The highest lakes in Pakistan are the Paristan Lake and the two Shimshal Lakes, all three of which are at an altitude of over 4,755 metres (15,600 ft).
The highest mountain in Bhutan is Gangkhar Puensum, which is also a strong candidate for the highest unclimbed mountain in the world.
The highest number of flyovers and under passes are located in Karachi, followed by Lahore.
The highest peak in the range is the limestone Sheikh Badin Mountain, which is protected by the Sheikh Badin National Park.
The highest peak is Zarghun Ghar at 3,578 m (11,739 ft) near Quetta.
The highest peak of Himalayan range in Pakistan is Nanga Parbat (8,126 metres (26,660 ft)), which is the ninth-highest peak of the world.
The highest peak of the Kheerthar range is Zardak Peak at 7,430 ft (2,260 m).
The highest peak of the mountains is Zardak Peak at 9,498 ft (2,895 m).
The highest point is 246 ft (75 m) above sea level.
The highest rainfall of 620 millimetres (24 in) was recorded in Islamabad during 24 hours on 24 July 2001.
The highest temperature in Quetta is 42 °C (108 °F) which was recorded on 10 July 1998.
The historical Vedic religion constituted the religious ideas and practices in the Punjab during the Vedic period (1500–500 BCE), centered primarily in the worship of Indra.
The historical region of Punjab produces a relatively high proportion of the food output from India and Pakistan.
The history of the Thal Canal Project dates back to 1873 when the project was first conceived for the whole of the Thal Doab.
The history of transport in modern-day Pakistan dates back to the Indus Valley civilization.
The hydropower potential of the Ravi River system has been assessed at 2294 MW, of which only 1638 MW has been harnessed cumulatively, thus leaving 656 MW wasted opportunity.
The idea of Pashtunistan never helped Pashtuns and it only caused suffering for them.
The idea of declaring the Siachen region a "Peace Park" was presented by environmentalists and peace activists in part to preserve the ecosystem of the region badly affected by the military presence.
The idea of the initiative was to hold a competition between cities of Pakistan in cleanliness and greenery.
The impact of climate change has the potential to initiate extensive and potent negative feedback loops that affect both livelihoods and public health.
The implication of East Pakistan's heavy rainfall was that the main crops that were grown in East Pakistan were rice, tea, and jute.
The improved connectivity facilitated the local population to avail itself of educational opportunities in the rest of Pakistan.
The inadequate air emission treatments and lack of regulatory control over industrial activity has contributed to the deterioration of ambient air quality in major cities.
The inaugural meeting was attended by the heads of the ISI, IB, and FIA.
The increase in temperature is shifting various species to higher elevations.
The increasing temperatures are also leading to a decrease in territory for local wildlife.
The industrial seaport city of Chittagong hosted the headquarters of Burmah Eastern and Pakistan National Oil.
The influential Pakistan Academy of Sciences guides the government on science policies.
The inner valleys of the Hindu Kush see little rain and have desert vegetation.
The intense heat over the Tibetan Plateau, coupled with associated terrain features like the high altitude of the plateau, generate the tropical easterly jet over central India.
The interaction of the monsoon trough with western disturbances may occasionally cause dense clouding and heavy precipitation.
The irregular northern margin of the Indian continental crust first came into contact with Eurasia along its northwestern corner, approximately 55 Ma.
The irrigation project, which facilitated the emergence of intensive cultivation despite semi-arid conditions, resulted in important social and political transformations.
The island can be reached by boats from Pasni in about three hours.
The island consists of a large tilted plateau and a series of seven small hillocks (hence the local name "Haft Talar" or "Seven Hills"), with deep chasms and crevices, which are several feet wide.
The island hosts several reptile species, including the carpet viper and cliff racer.
The island is also an important area for endemic reptiles such as the Astola viper (Echis carinatus astolae).
The island is situated near Pasni, Gwadar District of Balochistan province.
The island maintains consistently warm temperatures throughout the year, with minimal variation between day and night.
The island was also known to the Hindus as Satadip.
The islands form the smallest union territory of India with their total surface area being just 32 km2 (12 sq mi).
The isolated communities in the Hindu Kush were one of the targets of these slave-hunting expeditions.
The isthmus separates the shallow Padi Zirr bay to the west, from the deep water Demi Zirr harbour in the east.
The jet stream theory also explains the variability in timing and strength of the monsoon.
The jet streams are systems of upper-air westerlies.
The joint special operations were managed and undertaken by the Naval Special Service Group (SSG(N)) who was assisted by the army, air force, and marines unit.
The journey begins from Basel, with a slight deviation from the well-known route to Dudipatsar Lake leading to the Samabsar Lake and Dharamsar Lake.
The journey from Rawalpindi / Islamabad to Gilgit takes approximately 20 to 24 hours.
The judicial branch of government is carried out by the Balochistan High Court, which is based in Quetta and headed by a Chief Justice.
The junction of the Baltoro and Godwin-Austen Glaciers, known as Concordia, is a renowned trekking destination, as is the K2 Base Camp.
The key col for Nanga Parbat is Zoji La in Kashmir Valley, which connects it to higher peaks in the remaining Himalaya-Karakoram range.
The kingdom’s economy, which had long depended on levies on caravans, declined after Bombay became a major port and sea trade largely replaced traditional land routes.
The lack of mental health infrastructure in the affected areas compounded these problems as there were few resources available for trauma counselling or psychological support.
The lack of support for a name change by the PML (N) was defended as opposition to the nationalistic politics being pursued by the ANP.
The lack of vegetative cover, severe climate, and grazing impact on deserts have endangered wild animals.
The lake and its wetlands habitats are of significant ecological importance for resident fauna and migratory waterfowl.
The lake has rich eco-diversity and holds many species of blue-green algae.
The lake is accessible from the nearby town of Naran during the summer season but access during winter is limited, as heavy snowfall and landslides threaten to cutoff the lake from other regions.
The lake is accessible through two routes.
The lake is accessible via a trek from Lulusar Lake and provides an ideal habitat for trout breeding.
The lake is situated on the way to Lulusar Lake from Naran, approximately 40 kilometers away.
The lake is spread over an area of over 260 square kilometres (100 square miles).
The lake lies at the north end of the Kaghan Valley, in the Mansehra District, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, in northern Pakistan.
The lake supplies water to Skardu Valley.
The lake will be accessed by trekking from Lulusar Lake and is renowned for its trout breeding grounds.
The lake's name "Sambaksar" comes from the local language and means "Wall" which is fitting as it is situated next to a wall-like feature at such a high altitude.
The lake's water is a greenish blue hue and very cold, at an elevation of 3,800 metres (12,500 ft).
The lakes are surrounded by Porbinar on one side, Kutawai Nullah on the front, and Jalkad Nullah on the other.
The land is not fit for agriculture due to low irrigation.
The land was also the source of other livelihood necessities such as wood, fuel, grazing for animals which then turned into dairy products.
The lands north of the Hindu Kush, in the Hephthalite dominion, Buddhism was the predominant religion by mid 1st millennium CE.
The landscape is amongst the most heavily irrigated on earth and canals can be found throughout the province.
The landslide completely covered sections of the Karakoram Highway.
The language controversy further exacerbated tensions between Hindus and Muslims.
The language is also sometimes known as Pahari, although it bears a closer resemblance to the Hindko of neighbouring Kaghan Valley than to the Pahari spoken in the Murree Hills.
The large delta has been recognized by conservationists as an important ecological region.
The largest desert is the Kharan Desert which occupies the most of Kharan District.
The largest ethnic group are the Pashtuns, who have been living in the region for centuries.
The largest ethnic group of the province were Bengalis, who in turn were the largest ethnic group in Pakistan.
The largest islands in the Arabian Sea include Socotra (Yemen), Masirah Island (Oman), Lakshadweep (India) and Astola Island (Pakistan).
The largest lake in Pakistan, and also one of the largest in South Asia, is the Manchar Lake.
The largest non-Muslim minority is Christians with 2,458,924 adherents, forming roughly 1.93 per cent of the population.
The largest portion of the basin, at 47%, lies in Pakistan while India contains the second biggest share at 39%.
The last Maqpon Raja, Ahmed Shah, ruled all of Baltistan between 1811 and 1840.
The last Soomra ruler took shelter with the governor of Gujarat, under the protection of Muhammad bin Tughluq, the sultan of Delhi.
The last major obstacle is a narrow couloir known as the "Bottleneck", which places climbers dangerously close to a wall of seracs that form an ice cliff to the east of the summit.
The last survivor to reach safety, Ang Tsering, did so having spent seven days battling through the storm.
The lateral compression generated by the obstruction caused the plate to be sheared horizontally.
The latest Manora Beach Resort was finally inaugurated by Murad Ali Shah (Chief Minister of Sindh) in October 2021.
The latter is considered the largest earthquake-triggered landslide and formed a new lake.
The left bank is in Punjab and the right bank is in Jammu and Kashmir.
The length of the growing season has increased by 4.25 days per decade.
The length of the total delta along the axis of Indus is estimated at 240 km (150 mi), whereas the current delta stretches from the Arabian Sea to just south of Thatta (~100 km or 62 mi).
The length used in this article is 3,180 km (1,980 mi), taken from the Himalayan Climate and Water Atlas (2015).
The leopard is now rare and the Asiatic cheetah extinct.
The line had been plotted by Karl Herrligkoffer on a previous unsuccessful attempt.
The list is an incomplete list of mountains in Pakistan.
The list of highest mountains ranks the highest 100 summits with at least 500 m prominence, approximating a 7% relative prominence.
The literacy rate has increased greatly over the last 40 years (see the table below).
The literacy rate in Azad Kashmir was 62% in 2004, higher than in any other region of Pakistan.
The literacy rate of Azad Kashmir was 76.60% in 2018.
The literacy rate of Gilgit-Baltistan is approximately 72%.
The literacy rate of the Hunza valley is more than 95%.
The literacy rate of the province in 2017 was 43.6%, an increase from 24.8% in 1998.
The local Rai dynasty emerged from Sindh and reigned for a period of 144 years, concurrent with the Huna invasions of North India.
The local dialect is not completely intelligible with the ones spoken in the rest of Pakistan.
The local government system consists of districts, tehsils, and union councils, with an elected body at each tier.
The local languages spoken include Burushaski, Wakhi and Shina.
The local name for these lakes is Doyi Mali, and there are two lakes in the vicinity, one smaller and the other slightly larger in size.
The local people speak the Potwari language.
The local population south of the pass predominantly consists of Brahvi tribes, who extend from Bolan Pass to Cape Monze on the Arabian Sea.
The location corresponds to that of the Maka satrapy in Achaemenid times.
The locations of the highest mountains are shown on the composite satellite image of Karakoram and Hindu Kush below.
The longest and the largest river in Pakistan is the Indus River.
The longevity of Hunza people has been noted by some, but others refute this as a longevity myth promoted by the lack of birth records.
The lopped branches are good as fencing material.
The lower course of the river ends in a large delta in the Sindh province of Pakistan.
The lower reaches are far more arid than those in the north, and they branch into ranges that run generally to the southwest across the province Balochistan.
The lowermost part of the river and its delta are home to freshwater fish, but also several brackish and marine species.
The lowest temperature in Quetta is −18.3 °C (−0.9 °F) which was recorded on 8 January 1970.
The maharaja's administration is said to have started levying punitive taxes on the peasantry which provoked a local revolt and the administration resorted to brutal suppression.
The maharaja's crumbling forces were unable to withstand the onslaught.
The main Ravi River flows through the base of Dalhousie hill, past the Chamba town.
The main branches include the Army, Navy, and Air Force, supported by numerous paramilitaries.
The main causes were increased precipitation and glaciers melting fueled by climate change.
The main instruments are the rubab, mangey and harmonium.
The main lagoons are Miani Hor, Khor Kalmat, and the Jiwani Coastal Wetland.
The main occupations of the inhabitants are agriculture and animal husbandry.
The main purpose of this area was to protect the wildlife of Cholistan Desert.
The main ranges are the Karakoram and the western Himalayas.
The main reasons of deforestation are urbanization, farming, overgrazing, and tourism development.
The main ruins of Taxila include four major cities, each belonging to a distinct time period, at three different sites.
The main source of this pollution is the traffic noise caused by buses, cars, trucks, rickshaws and water tankers.
The main tourism activities are trekking and mountaineering, and this industry has been growing in importance throughout the region.
The main types are the polar jets, the subtropical westerly jets, and the less common tropical easterly jets.
The major cities of the Indus Valley Civilisation, such as Harappa and Mohenjo-daro, date back to around 3300 BC, and represent some of the largest human habitations of the ancient world.
The major football ground is Ayub National Stadium, a multipurpose stadium also used for athletics.
The major language is Punjabi, which is written in India with the Gurmukhi script, and in Pakistan using the Shahmukhi script.
The major native language spoken in Punjab is Punjabi, representing the largest language spoken in the country.
The major reasons of these environmental issues are carbon emissions, population explosion, and deforestation.
The majority are Muslims (96.35%), followed by Hindus (2.17%) and Christians (1.37%).
The majority follow Sunni Islam, with a significant presence of Sufism, while Shia Muslims constitute a minority.
The majority of precipitation occurs between the months of June and August; however, there is high variability across seasons and even years.
The majority of residents in Hunza belong to the Ismaili Shia sect.
The majority of the highest peaks are in the Gilgit–Baltistan region administered by Pakistan.
The majority of the population of Zhob district is Pashtun.
The majority of the population, however, are native speakers of other languages.
The mantle plume that once broke up Gondwana might also have melted the lower part of the Indian subcontinent, which allowed it to move both more quickly and farther than the other parts.
The marine ecosystem also includes 23 species of hard corals, various soft corals, and a multitude of associated fish and invertebrate species.
The marine protected area has a length of approximately 3.5 km (2.2 mi) and a width of 1.5 km (0.93 mi) and covers a total area of 6.7 km2 (2.6 sq mi).
The maximum intensity in India was VIII (Destructive) on the Medvedev–Sponheuer–Karnik scale (MSK), and was felt at Uri.
The mean annual flow is 14 million acre feet (MAF) (roughly 1.727 × 1013 L) upstream of Ropar barrage, downstream of the Bhakra dam.
The mean temperature in Cholistan is 28.33 °C (82.99 °F), with the hottest month being July with a mean temperature of 38.5 °C (101.3 °F).
The mechanism affecting the monsoon is that the westerly jet causes high pressure over northern parts of the subcontinent during the winter.
The median age of the country was 19, while its sex ratio was recorded to be 105 males per 100 females.
The melting snow from the Deosai Plains is the main source of water for the lake.
The metamorphic rocks of the Himalaya can be very useful in deciphering and coming up with models of tectonic relationships.
The mid-crustal ramp in the Himalayas is a key geologic feature in the history for both long-term and short-term seismic processes linked to deformation and shortening.
The middle class has grown to about 35 million, with another 17 million in the upper and upper-middle classes, leading to a shift in power from rural landowners to urban elites.
The migrating Indo-Aryan tribes gave rise to the Iron Age Vedic civilisation, which lasted till 500 BC.
The migration to the UK was accelerated and by the completion of Mangla Dam in 1967 the process of 'chain migration' became in full flow.
The military junta stalled in accepting the results, leading to civil disobedience, the Bangladesh Liberation War, 1971 Bangladesh genocide and persecution of Biharis.
The military junta stalled the transfer of power and conducted prolonged negotiations with the League.
The military offensives Operation Khwakh Ba De Sham and Operation Koh-e-Safaid, ended in 2011 with the Lower and Upper Subdivisions of the agency falling back into the Pakistani control.
The military police arrested Mujib and Bhutto and placed them in Adiala Jail in Rawalpindi.
The military's influence in mainstream politics has been significant throughout Pakistan's history.
The mission of the force is the prevention and detection of crime, maintenance of law and order and enforcement of the Constitution of Pakistan.
The modern Encyclopedia Britannica was originally published in 1999 with the shorter measurement, but was updated in 2015 to use the longer measurement.
The modern day rate of convergence between the Indian and Eurasian plates is measured to be approximately 17 mm/yr.
The modern name in Urdu is Sindh (Urdu: سندھ) or Daryā-i-Sindh (Urdu: دریائے سندھ, lit.
The modern-day town of Jalalpur Sharif, outside Jhelum, is said to be where Bucephalus is buried.
The moisture in these storms usually originates over the Mediterranean Sea, the Caspian Sea and the Black Sea.
The monsoon and the Western Disturbance are the two main factors which alter the weather over Pakistan; Continental air prevails for the rest of the year.
The monsoon can seriously impact transport and cause major landslides.
The monsoon is the primary bearer of fresh water to the area.
The monsoon is the primary delivery mechanism for fresh water in the Indian subcontinent.
The monsoon season, from July to September, is a period of heavy rainfall, providing water for crops in addition to the supply from canals and irrigation systems.
The monsoon turns large parts of India from semi-deserts into green grasslands.
The monsoon, although short, is generally powerful.
The most common occupations, in both men and women, consists of shepherds, farmed livestock caretakers and domestic livestock caretakers.
The most common sources of excess nutrients in surface water from nonpoint sources are chemical fertilizers and manure from animal facilities.
The most commonly used species is the Saccharum with its various uses in sheltering, fodder and making objects.
The most favourite aircraft in Pakistan is the Airbus A320 family with only Serene air having 4 Boeing 737s instead of the Airbuses.
The most important mountain pass in Afghanistan is the Salang Pass (Kotal-e Salang) (3,878 m or 12,723 ft) north of Kabul, which links southern Afghanistan to northern Afghanistan.
The most important targets for mitigation efforts focused on reduction of GHG emissions are the energy and agriculture sectors.
The most notable of these rocks are the Princess of Hope and the Balochistan Sphinx.
The most notable rulers of the empire were Lalliya, Bhimadeva and Jayapala who were accredited for military victories.
The most spectacular landform of Hangul National Park is a hoodoo called the Princess of Hope.
The mountain is known locally by its Shina name Diamer or Deo Mir, from Sanskrit dēvamēru, meaning "mountain of the gods".
The mountain is located in a region claimed by the provincial governments of Sindh and Balochistan.
The mountain is not visible from Askole, one of the highest settlements on the way to the mountain, nor from the nearest habitation to the north.
The mountain lakes are known to geographers as tarns if they are caused by glacial activity.
The mountain passes of the Hindu Kush range were used by Timur and his army and they crossed to launch the 1398 invasion of the northern Indian subcontinent.
The mountain range forms part of the Kirthar-Sulaiman geological province, which stretches from the Arabian Sea coast north to the Sulaiman Mountains in northwest Pakistan.
The mountain ranges of the Bolan pass are the southern geographic border between the Indian Plate and the Iranian plateau.
The mountain was first surveyed by a British team in 1856.
The mountainous areas of Hindu Kush range are mostly barren or, at the most, sparsely sprinkled with trees and stunted bushes.
The mountains are drained by the Gaj River and Hub River.
The mountains are orographically described in several parts.
The mountains extend southward for about 190 mi (310 km) from the Mula River in east-central Balochistan to Cape Monze on the Arabian Sea.
The mountains of the Hindu Kush range diminish in height as they stretch westward.
The movement demanded greater provincial autonomy and the restoration of democracy in Pakistan.
The movement of the Indian plate into the Asian plate also makes this region seismically active, leading to earthquakes from time to time.
The name "Balochistan" means "the land of the Baloch people".
The name "Cholistan" is derived from the Turkish word "chol," meaning "desert," though the desert is locally known as Rohi.
The name "Swat" is derived from the Swat River.
The name Afghania was proposed first by the founding leaders of the Muslim League in 1933 and was at least partly chosen to represent the first "a" in "Pakistan".
The name Chogori, derived from two Balti words, chhogo ཆོ་གྷའོ་ ("big") and ri རི ("mountain") (چھوغوری) has been suggested as a local name, but evidence for its widespread use is scant.
The name Gandhāra was proposed by Pakistan Muslim League (N), as a neutral name for the province.
The name Gomal is thought to have derived from the river Gomati, which is mentioned in the Rigveda.
The name K2 is derived from the notation used by the Great Trigonometrical Survey of British India.
The name Karakoram was used in the early 20th century, for example by Kenneth Mason, for the range now known as the Baltoro Muztagh.
The name Kurram comes from the river Kurram, which flows along the valley.
The name Kurram comes from the river Kwarma (Pashto: کورمه) in Pashto, which itself derives from the Sanskrit word Krumu (Sanskrit: क्रुमु).
The name Nanga Parbat is derived from the Sanskrit words nagna and parvata, which, when combined, translate to "Naked Mountain".
The name Pakhtunkhwa was approved by the democratically elected constitutional assembly of the province in 1997 by majority vote.
The name Pakhtunkhwa was mentioned for the first time in the United Nation's General Assembly by Pakistani President Asif Zardari on 26 September 2008.
The name Pakistan was coined by Choudhry Rahmat Ali, a Pakistan Movement activist, who in January 1933 first published it (originally as "Pakstan") in a pamphlet Now or Never, using it as an acronym.
The name Panjnad is derived from Persian panj ("five") and Sanskrit nadī́ ("river") which means "five rivers".
The name Quetta is a variation of the Pashto word Kwatkōṭ, or kōta meaning "fortress".
The name change of the province was met with strong opposition from the people of Hazara region and protests erupted in the region with wheel and shutter jam strikes.
The name is derived from the local language where "Sat" means seven and "Sri Mala" refers to the chain of lakes that are connected through waterfalls.
The name meant that it was seen to have dark-coloured waters.
The name of Parachinar comes from 'Para' (Paarha), one of the tribes of the valley and 'Chinar', the maple trees which are found in abundance in the region and Parachinar in particular.
The name of the range hails from the Sanskrit Himālaya (हिमालय 'abode of snow'), from hima (हिम 'frost/cold') and ālaya (आलय 'dwelling/house').
The name of the range is sometimes also given as Himavan in older writings, including the Sanskrit epic Mahabharata.
The name refers to the south face, which is usually snowless.
The name survives in the Kashmiri name for this river, Vyath and in Punjabi (and more commonly in Saraiki) as Vehat.
The name thus refers to the waters of a river (flowing beside the city) which have their origins in the snow-capped Himalayas.
The naming and division of the various subranges of the Karakoram is not universally agreed upon.
The naming of the glacier itself, or at least its currency, is attributed to Tom Longstaff.
The narrow coastal plain rises rapidly into several mountain ranges.
The national poet of Pakistan, Muhammad Iqbal, wrote influential poetry in Urdu and Persian, advocating for Islamic civilizational revival.
The natural flow of water and fertile sediments from Indus river into the delta has been impeded due to the construction of dams along the river.
The natural vegetation of the region is composed of trees, thorny scrubs and scattered grasslands.
The natural vegetation of this dry area is classified as northwestern thorn scrub forest (i.e.
The nearest Kharoshti finds are the Kurram Casket inscription of the year 20, recovered from the Kurram Valley.
The nearest civilian settlement is the village of Warshi, 10 miles downstream from the Indian base camp.
The nearest major city is Bahawalpur city, 30 km (19 mi) from the edge of the desert.
The negotiations were widely considered to be insufficiently transparent.
The new lake extends 30 kilometres (19 mi) and rose to a depth of 400 feet (120 m) when it was formed as the Hunza River backed up.
The news spread like a fire in both East and West Pakistan, and the struggle for independence began in East Pakistan.
The next attempt on K2 was not made until 1938, when the First American Karakoram expedition, led by Charles Houston, made a reconnaissance of the mountain.
The next highest peak is the 6,880-foot-tall (2,100 m) mountain Kutte-Ji-Kabar (Sindhi for "Dog's Grave"), also known as Kuchak-na-Kabar in Brahui.
The next sultan, Firuz Shah Tughlaq attacked Sindh in 1365 and 1367, unsuccessfully, but with reinforcements from Delhi he later obtained Banbhiniyo's surrender.
The nominal per capita GDP was US$1,710, and the GDP (PPP)/capita amounted to US$6,950 (international dollars).
The north/northwest side of the mountain, leading to the Indus, is more complex.
The northeast monsoon usually "bursts" around 20 October and lasts for about 50 days before withdrawing.
The northeastern part of the Thar Desert lies between the Aravalli Hills, which separates the same from the Central highlands and the Indo-Gangetic Plain to the east.
The northerly side of the plate is a convergent boundary with the Eurasian plate forming the Himalaya and Hindu Kush mountains, called the Main Himalayan Thrust.
The northern and western heights of the valley receive snowfalls in winters.
The northern highlands include parts of the Hindu Kush, the Karakoram Range, and the Himalayas.
The northern part of Azad Jammu and Kashmir encompasses the lower area of the Himalayas, including Jamgarh Peak (4,734 m or 15,531 ft).
The northern part of Pakistan boasts numerous old fortresses, showcasing ancient architecture.
The northern regions of the Hindu Kush witness Himalayan winter and have glaciers, while its southeastern end witnesses the fringe of Indian subcontinent summer monsoons.
The northern sections of the Carlsberg Ridge flank the southern edge of the Arabian Basin.
The northern zone is cold and snowy in winters with heavy rainfall and pleasant summers with the exception of the Peshawar basin, which is hot in summer and cold in winter.
The northward shift is not a slow and gradual process, as expected for most changes in weather pattern.
The notable Indo-Islamic structure, the tomb of Shah Rukn-i-Alam in Multan, remains significant.
The numbers refer to the global ranking in this "List of highest mountains".
The oak forest is being invaded by pine forests in the Garhwal Himalayan region.
The observed monsoon rainfall indicates a gradual decline over central India, with a reduction of up to 10%.
The occupation is mainly agriculture and farming.
The official language of Azad Kashmir is Urdu,[note 3] while English is used in higher domains.
The oil fields are connected by pipeline to the Attock Refinery in Rawalpindi.
The old name of Parchinar was Tutki and the inhabitants of Tutki were called Tutkiwal and even still, the Afghans call it Tutki.
The oldest national park is Lal Suhanra in Bahawalpur District, established in 1972.
The ongoing active collision of the Indian and Eurasian continental plates challenges one hypothesis for plate motion which relies on subduction.
The only problem is that locals are rapidly clearing the forests on the Himalayas for wood, often illegally.
The only trees which grow in the desert include the Khagal, Shareen, Acacia, Beri (Ziziphus Jajoba) and Karir types.
The onset and duration of these seasons vary greatly according to location.
The onset and duration of these seasons vary somewhat according to location.
The onset of the Indus civilization around the mid-3rd millennium BCE heralded an urban culture, evidenced by surviving large structures.
The onset of the monsoon increases fungal and bacterial activity.
The onset of the monsoon occurs over the Bay of Bengal in May, arriving at the Indian Peninsula by June, and then the winds move towards the South China Sea.
The onset of the southwest monsoon is anticipated to reach Punjab by May, but since the early 1970s, the weather pattern has been irregular.
The opening of the new Jinnah Naval Base at Ormara, 250 kilometers away, has meant that approximately half of the naval vessels have moved away from Manora.
The order granted self-rule to the people of Gilgit-Baltistan, by creating, among other things, an elected Gilgit-Baltistan Legislative Assembly and Gilgit-Baltistan Council.
The other is Mount Everest, which ranks first on both lists.
The other minorities include Sikhs and Parsis.
The other side is religious issues and terrorism.
The overall density of resident bird species is higher with the most abundant species being Turdoides squamiceps (Arabian babbler) and Lanius excubitor (Great grey shrike).
The overall loss, about a quarter of the average income of local farmers, has had a major impact on the local economy.
The overall population growth rate between 1998 and 2011 was 63.1% making it 4.85% annually.
The park alongwith the Hub Dam site area attained the status of the Important Bird and Biodiversity Area (IBA) in 2004.
The park also serves to provide shelter to a vast bio-diversity, especially markhor, an endangered wild goat species.
The park covers an area of about 6,100 square kilometres (2,400 sq mi) and is located 190 km from Karachi in the three districts of Gwadar, Lasbela and Awaran in Balochistan.
The park forms an excellent habitat to wild Sindh ibex, Baluchistan urial, and Chinkara.
The park includes the estuary of the Hungol River which supports a significant diversity of bird and fish species.
The park is also known as Chitral National Park.
The park is bordered by a dense forest to the north, a barren mountain range to the south, and the Hingol River tributary, which is home to thousands of migratory birds and marsh crocodiles.
The park is named after the southern part of the Hingol River, which flows along the shores of the Arabian Sea and is home to large numbers of waterfowl and a wealth of marine life.
The park is rich in trees particularly cedar trees.
The park protects an area of 843 square kilometres (325 mi2).
The park was formally established on 29 April 1975 by Prime Minister of Pakistan Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, who said that "it must become a world famous park".
The park's lakes and wetlands habitats are of significant ecological importance for resident fauna and migratory waterfowl.
The park’s unique rock formations have been attracting tourists from all over the country for some time - notably since the completion of the Makran Coastal Highway in 2004.
The part of the economy that Khyber Pakhtunkhwa dominates is forestry, where its share has historically ranged from a low of 34.9% to a high of 81%, giving an average of 61.56%.
The partitioning of the Indian subcontinent in 1947 resulted in the migration of over 15 million people and created a refugee problem for the then government.
The party won 160 of the 162 seats allotted to East Pakistan, and thus a majority of the 300 seats in the Parliament.
The pass is an 89 km (55 miles) stretch of the Bolan River valley from Rindli in the south to Darwāza near Kolpur in the north.
The pass starts at Kadam near Jamrud, 18 km (11 mi) west of Peshawar.
The peacock is designated as the national bird of India and the provincial bird of the Punjab (Pakistan).
The peak marked as number 9 is Nanga Parbat (8,125 m), which is the 2nd highest Himalayan peak in Pakistan.
The peninsular/Deccan rivers of India are mostly rain-fed and non-perennial in nature, depending primarily on the monsoon for water supply.
The people of Bazira fled to the rock Aornos, but Alexander made Embolima (possibly Amb) his base, and attacked the rock from there, which was captured after a desperate resistance.
The people of Cholistan are fond of jewelry, especially gold jewelry.
The people of Galtari travel via Deosai.
The people of Gilgit-Baltistan have opposed integration with Azad Kashmir.
The people of Gilgit-Baltistan were deprived of rights enjoyed by citizens of Pakistan and Azad Kashmir.
The people of Kafiristan had practiced ancient polytheistic traditions until the 1896 invasion and conversion to Islam at the hands of Afghans under Amir Abdur Rahman Khan.
The people of Pakistan could not come to terms with the magnitude of the defeat, and spontaneous demonstrations and mass protests erupted on the streets of major cities in (West) Pakistan.
The people of this region culturally differ from the Kashmiris living in the Kashmir Valley of Jammu and Kashmir and are closer to the culture of Pir Panjal Region.
The percentage of Pakistan's area that is forest is disputed.
The perception that Congress-led British provincial governments neglected the Muslim League from 1937 to 1939 motivated Jinnah and other Muslim League leaders to embrace the two-nation theory.
The persistence of water scarcity heavily influences life in all areas of the Thar, prompting many inhabitants to adopt a nomadic lifestyle.
The petroleum industry developed as the Eastern Refinery was established in the port city of Chittagong.
The physical factors determining the climate in any location in the Himalayas include latitude, altitude, and the relative motion of the Southwest monsoon.
The pilgrims customarily perform a ritual ablution in the river, an act symbolically likened to bathing in the sacred waters of the Ganges, before proceeding onward to the temple.
The pirs generated huge support for the Khilafat cause in Sindh.
The plains are also very hot in summer, with temperatures reaching 50 °C (122 °F).
The plains are recognised under IUCN protected area category Ib as wilderness area.
The plant is capable of providing 40 gallons of drinking water every day.
The plateau lies east of Astore, south of Skardu and west of Ladakh.
The policy of the Great Trigonometrical Survey was to use local names for mountains wherever possible[c] and K1 was found to be known locally as Masherbrum.
The polling began on 6 July 1947 and the referendum results were made public on 20 July 1947.
The pond occupies an area of two kanals and 15 marlas, with a maximum depth of 20 feet.
The population constituted 6.85% of Pakistan's total population.
The population density is very low due to the mountainous terrain and scarcity of water.
The population in Gilgit perceived itself as ethnically different from Kashmiris and disliked being ruled by the Kashmir state.
The population lives in scattered settlements and most farmers own less than 5 acres of land, which is difficult to cultivate.
The population of Azad Kashmir is almost entirely Muslim.
The population of Azad Kashmir, according to the preliminary results of the 2017 Census, is 4.045 million.
The population of Gilgit-Baltistan consists of many diverse linguistic, ethnic, and religious sects, due in part to the many isolated valleys separated by some of the world's highest mountains.
The population of Gilgit-Baltistan is entirely Muslim and is denominationally the most diverse in the country.
The population of Gilgit-Baltistan was estimated to be 1,713,778 in 2022 by the Government of Gilgit Baltistan.
The population of Zhob District was estimated at 355,692 in 2023.
The population of fish in the river is moderately high, with Sukkur, Thatta, and Kotri being the major fishing centres – all in the lower Sindh course.
The population of the active part of the delta was estimated at 900,000 in 2003.
The population of the delta was estimated at 900,000 in 2003 (the total population of Indus River Delta-Arabian Sea mangroves was 1.2 million).
The population suffers from the lack of health facilities and medical staff.
The populations in Gilgit, Hunza and Nagar districts are composed of a mix of all of these sects.
The populist leader H. S. Suhrawardy of East Pakistan was appointed prime minister of Pakistan.
The port city was considered the "crown jewel" of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) and China's Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).
The port features prominently in the China–Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) and is considered to be a link between the Belt and Road Initiative and the Maritime Silk Road projects.
The port handled just under 3.5m teu in 2009.
The port is located 533 km from Pakistan's largest city, Karachi, and is approximately 120 km from the Iranian border.
The port is located on the eastern bay of a natural hammerhead-shaped peninsula jutting out into the Arabian Sea from the coastline.
The port is projected to be the hub of an energy and trade corridor to and from China, the Middle East, and the Central Asian republics.
The port is situated on a rocky outcropping in the Arabian sea that forms part of a natural hammerhead-shaped peninsula protruding out from the Pakistani coastline.
The port is under the administrative control of the Maritime Secretary of Pakistan and the operational control of the China Overseas Port Holding Company.
The port will also be the site of a floating liquefied natural gas facility that will be built as part of the larger $2.5 billion Gwadar-Nawabshah segment of the Iran–Pakistan gas pipeline project.
The portion most visited is located near Skardu Airport.
The potential of Gwadar to serve as a deep-water port was first identified in 1954, when the city was still under Omani rule.
The poverty rate of Pakistan, when estimated at $2 per day purchasing power parity, exceeds 50% of the total population with stark provincial disparities.
The power generation aspect was not considered then.
The power of the Saka rulers declined after the defeat to Chandragupta II of the Gupta Empire in the 4th century.
The power then transferred to the Talpurs until the British East India Company conquered them in 1839.
The precise delineations are not yet known but Sommrus were probably centered in lower Sindh.
The predominant ethnolinguistic group of the Punjab region are the Punjabi people, who speak the Indo-Aryan Punjabi language.
The prevailing winds of the atmospheric circulation arise because of the difference in pressure at various latitudes and act as means for distribution of thermal energy on the planet.
The previous Perso-Arabic spelling Sind (سند) was discontinued in 1988 by an amendment passed in the Sindh Assembly.
The primary cause is believed to be the height of the Himalayas.
The primary family unit is the extended family, but there's a rising trend towards nuclear families due to socio-economic factors.
The primary purpose of this park was to provide protection to the endangered Marco Polo sheep, which is only found in this area in Pakistan.
The princely state of Swat was a kingdom established in the late 19th century by the Muslim saint Akhund Abdul Gaffur, more commonly known as Saidu Baba, that was ruled by chiefs known as Akhunds.
The principal administrative centers are the towns of Gilgit and Skardu.
The private print media, state-owned Pakistan Television Corporation (PTV), and Pakistan Broadcasting Corporation (PBC) dominated media until the 21st century.
The pro-independence Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front has never been allowed to contest elections in Azad Kashmir.
The produce included various crops, fruits, vegetables, etc.
The project aims to increase the availability of air quality data in Pakistan and make citizens more aware of the health impacts of air pollution.
The project is intended to connect the Ganges, which flows to the east coast of the subcontinent, with points west, via Pakistan.
The project proposal came under discussion again in 1975 when the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) refused to endorse the project.
The project received a major boost when control of Gwadar was transferred to China's state-owned China Overseas Ports Holding in February 2013.
The project was completed in August 2017, ahead of schedule.
The project was controversial for displacing over 40,000 indigenous people from the area.
The project's cost was then US$1.7 billion, with a foreign loan of US$1.07 billion.
The proposed line will also be connected the port town of Gwadar via Dalbadin and Taftan, thus connecting the port town to Central Asia.
The protected areas serve the purpose of conserving the forests and wildlife of Pakistan.
The province accounts for at least 78% of the marble production in Pakistan.
The province ceased to exist after the death of its last viceroy, Adina Beg in 1758, with large parts being incorporated into Durrani Empire.
The province forms the bulk of the transnational Punjab region, partitioned in 1947 between Pakistan and India.
The province has a number of large cosmopolitan cities, including the provincial capital Lahore.
The province has had various names throughout history.
The province includes a number of important historical sites.
The province is bordered by Afghanistan to the north and northwest, Iran to the south-west, Punjab and Sindh, and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the Federally Administered Tribal Areas to the northeast.
The province is home to 16.9 percent of Pakistan's total population.
The province is home to over half the population of Pakistan, and is the world's second-most populous subnational entity, and the most populous outside of India and China.
The province is mostly arid with scant vegetation except for the irrigated Indus Valley.
The province is well known for its distinct culture, which is strongly influenced by Sufism, an important marker of Sindhi identity for both Hindus and Muslims.
The province stretching southwards from the Baroghil Pass in the Hindu Kush covers almost six degrees of latitude; it is mainly a mountainous region.
The province's economy has quadrupled since 1972.
The province's renewable and human resource potential has not been systematically measured or exploited.
The province's trend towards the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) and away from the Pakistan Muslim League (N) can be seen in nationwide general elections, in which Sindh is a stronghold of the PPP.
The provincial cabinet is then appointed by the Chief Minister who takes the Oath of office from the Governor.
The provincial capital of Sindh is Karachi.
The provisional government faded away after this encounter with Alam Khan, clearly reflecting the flimsy and opportunistic nature of its basis and support.
The provisional government lasted 16 days.
The quake was felt in Kabul, but the effects were minimal there.
The railway network comprises11,492 km all of which is 5 ft 6 in (1,676 mm) gauge, including 286 km of electrified track.
The railway track was laid in the 1890s during the British era to link Quetta with rest of the country.
The railway's share of inland traffic is reduced to below 8% for passengers and 4% for freight.
The rain continued for the next two months, devastating large areas of Pakistan.
The rain shadowing of Himalayas are also believed to play an important part in the formation of Central Asian deserts, such as the Taklamakan and Gobi.
The rainfall distribution and amount varies with every western disturbance.
The rainfall is a result of the convergence of wind flow from the Bay of Bengal and reverse winds from the South China Sea.
The range and communities settled in it hosted ancient monasteries, important trade networks and travelers between Central Asia and South Asia.
The range came under the control of the Hindu Shahi dynasty of Kabul but was conquered by Sabuktigin who took all of Jayapala's dominion west of Peshawar.
The range extends along the south of the Potohar Plateau and the north of the Jhelum River.
The range extends from the Jhelum River to the Indus, across the northern portion of the Punjab province.
The range forms the western section of the Hindu Kush Himalayan Region (HKH) and is the westernmost extension of the Pamir Mountains, the Karakoram and the Himalayas.
The range has several other passes in Afghanistan, the lowest of which is the southern Shibar pass (2,700 m or 9,000 ft) where the Hindu Kush range terminates.
The range has some of the Earth's highest peaks, including the highest, Mount Everest.
The range is about 500 km (311 mi) in length and is the most glaciated place on Earth outside the polar regions.
The range is unlike other Himalaya type, thrusting due to the mechanical strength of the Eocambrian salt near the base of the sedimentary strata overlying Indian basement rock.
The range spans the borders of Pakistan, China, and India,[a] with the north-western extremities of the range extending into Afghanistan and Tajikistan.
The range varies in width from 350 km (220 mi) in the west to 151 km (94 mi) in the east.
The range was also known as Hindu Koh during the medieval period, as referred to as in the works of Abu al-Fazl during the reign of Mughal emperor Akbar.
The ranges are listed roughly west to east.
The ranks in the peaks above 7,000 metres (23,000 ft) are derived from the list of highest mountains.
The rare Houbara bustard finds Sindh's warm climate suitable to rest and mate.
The rate of erosion with respect to exhumation is thus also balanced.
The reason attributed to this change in the course of the river is massive river training structures/bunds constructed by Pakistan in its part of the river, close to the old course of the river.
The record-breaking rain fell in just 10 hours.
The reduction in the summer monsoon rainfall has grave consequences over central India because at least 60% of the agriculture in this region is still largely rain-fed.
The reduction of freshwater due to the dams also increases salinity, making the waters of the delta unsuitable for the freshwater species.
The refined, lightweight, colourful, washable fabrics from Hala became a luxury for people used to the woollens and linens of the age.
The region also included various princely states, with the largest being Bahawalpur.
The region became a center for caravan trade, leading to the construction of a dense network of forts in the medieval period - of which the Derawar Fort is the best-preserved example.
The region became a part of the Kushan Empire around the start of the common era.
The region became predominantly Muslim due to missionary Sufi saints whose dargahs dot the landscape of the Punjab region.
The region came under rule during the reign of King Kay Khosrow of the Kayanian dynasty of Iran.
The region contains numerous rock inscriptions in the ancient Brahmi script, created by Buddhist monks as expressions of worship and culture.
The region elects three male members of the National Assembly of Pakistan (MNAs), one female MNA, seven male members of the Provincial Assembly of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (MPAs) and two female MPAs.
The region has been used for extensive wheat farming.
The region holds several surviving Buddhist archaeological sites, such as the Sacred Rock of Hunza.
The region is also extremely remote, with limited road connectivity.
The region is also the only Shia-plurality area in an otherwise Sunni-dominant Pakistan.
The region is characterized by sand dunes, prone to massive shifting and rolling, as well as scant rainfall, high diurnal variation of temperature and high wind velocity.
The region is home to rare species including snow leopard, brown bear and ibex that are at risk because of the military presence.
The region is home to some of the world's highest mountain ranges.
The region receives rainfall in both the winter and the summer.
The region remained with the princely state, with temporary leases of some areas assigned to the British, until 1 November 1947.
The region surrounding Quetta is highly prone to earthquakes.
The region was a major centre for Greco-Buddhism under the Indo-Greeks and Gandharan Buddhism under later dynasties, including Indo-Scythians, Indo-Parthians and Kushans.
The region was contested during the Anglo-Afghan Wars, with control shifting between the British, Sikhs and Afghans.
The region was nominated for inclusion in the United Nations' World Heritage List as a part of the Karakoram range, but this was deferred by the World Heritage Committee.
The region was seized by the Tehrik-i-Taliban in late-2007 until Pakistani control was re-established in mid-2009.
The region was then contested by Chinese and Tibetan forces, and their respective vassal states, until the mid-700s.
The region was then divided between the Maurya Empire and the Greco-Bactrian kingdom in 302 B.C.E.
The region where the earthquake occurred crosses the political borders of Pakistan and India.
The region's scarcity of rainfall is compensated by the inundation of the Indus twice a year, caused by the spring and summer melting of Himalayan snow and by rainfall in the monsoon season.
The region, together with Azad Kashmir in the southwest, is grouped and referred to by the United Nations and other international organisations as "Pakistan-administered Kashmir".
The regions also have the greatest topographical relief in the interior of a continent, approximately 7,000 metres (23,000 ft) over a horizontal distance of 20–30 kilometres (12–19 mi).
The regions of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Gilgit Baltistan include portions of two biodiversity hotspots; Mountains of Central Asia and Himalayas.
The rejected dog died, and when the Brahui man came to learn of the true story, he felt remorseful and climbed to the top of the mountain in order to bury his dog.
The related site of Balakot, Makran, going back to 4000 BCE, was also studied by archaeologists.
The relics were then removed from the site during the British Raj, and are now housed in the British Museum.
The remainder of Sindh consists of an agriculture-based economy and produces fruits, consumer items and vegetables for other parts of the country.
The remainder of its route to the sea is in the plains of the Punjab and Sindh, where the flow of the river becomes slow and highly braided.
The remainder of the year has significantly less rain, amounting to about 100 millimetres (3.94 in) per month.
The remainder of the year has significantly less rain, amounting to about fifty millimeters per month.
The remaining 4% live mostly in Afghanistan, representing a little less than a quarter of the country's population.
The remaining 42% is earned from domestic traffic.
The remaining 48 airports have unpaved runways including one airport with a runway longer than 3,047 meters.
The remains of this plume today form the Marion hotspot (Prince Edward Islands), the Kerguelen hotspot, and the Réunion hotspots.
The remnants of the earliest people in Balochistan were the Brahui people, a Dravidian-speaking people.
The renaming issue was an emotional one which often crossed party lines and not all supporters of a renaming agreed on the name Pakhtunkhwa.
The report also stated that the increase in industrialization, urbanization and motorization will inevitably worsen this problem.
The request received political backing by the Pakistani Prime Minister.
The rest of the economy is shouldered by mainly agriculture and tourism.
The result has been catastrophic for both the environment and the local population.
The resulting landslides from the earthquake affected transport, with closure of essential roads and highways.
The reverse condition is known as La Niña.
The reverse happens during the winter, when the land is colder than the sea, establishing a pressure gradient from land to sea.
The reverse shift happens for the northeast monsoon.
The reverse shift takes place for the northeast monsoon winds, leading to a second, minor burst of rainfall over the eastern Indian Peninsula during the Northern Hemisphere winter months.
The rich culture, art and architectural landscape of Sindh have fascinated historians.
The ridge is composed of an enormous bulk of ice and rock.
The ridges between Khawak Pass and Badakshan is over 5,800 m (19,000 ft) and are called the Kaja Mohammed range.
The ridges rise rapidly over short distances between valleys and ridges.
The right bank side is also leveed from Guddu barrage to Lake Manchar.
The rise of Sikhism in the 1700s saw some Punjabis, both Hindu and Muslim, accepting the new Sikh faith.
The rise of kingdoms and dynasties in the Punjab is chronicled in the ancient Hindu epics, particularly the Mahabharata.
The rivalry was passed down to Mahan Singh and Ghulam Muhammad Chattha.
The river Jhelum rises from Verinag spring at the foot of the Pir Panjal in the southeastern Kashmir Valley administered by India.
The river Jhelum was originally recognized by the name Vitasta.
The river basin is home to a variety of flora and fauna, many of which are endemic or threatened.
The river carried significant amounts of water, and flowed until at least where Derawar Fort is now located.
The river drains a total catchment area of 14,442 square kilometres (5,576 sq mi) in India after flowing for a length of 720 kilometres (450 mi).
The river enters the Gomal Valley in Tank District at a place known as Girdavi, which is inhabited by the Miani Pashtuns.
The river has rich power generation potential in India.
The river is a tributary to the Indus River and meets the Indus in Skardu Valley.
The river is especially critical since rainfall is meagre in the lower Indus valley.
The river originates from Langchen Kabab in the Tibetan plateau, at the lakes of Mansarover and Rakastal at the southern slope of Mount Kailash, which is about 4,570 metres above sea-level.
The river originates in the Pab Range in southeastern Balochistan, continues along the border of Sindh and reaches Hub and then discharges into the Arabian Sea.
The river passes then through the Damaan plain in Kulachi Tehsil and later on through Dera Ismail Khan Tehsil.
The river rises in the Bara Bhangal, Kangra District in Himachal Pradesh, India.
The river sediments are highly contaminated and have become a secondary source for pollution of the river water, even though some control over unauthorised discharges into the river have been checked.
The river supports both ecological and human communities in this otherwise arid region.
The river system supported settlements in the region between 4000 BCE and 600 BCE when the river changed course.
The river thinking that Vasishtha was a mass of unquenchable fire dilated itself and flew in a hundred different directions.
The river was called Hydaspes (Greek: Ὑδάσπης) by the ancient Greeks.
The river was known to Indians in the Vedic period.
The river's flow sustains wetlands, riparian vegetation, and supports fish populations, making it critical for biodiversity.
The road is accessible by cars and motorbikes.
The rock carvings found in various places in Gilgit-Baltistan, especially in the Passu village of Hunza, suggest a human presence since 2000 BC.
The ruins of Sirkap date to the 2nd century BCE, and were built by the region's Greco-Bactrian kings who ruled in the region following Alexander the Great's invasion of the region in 326 BCE.
The rulers were the great patrons of art, and the various crafts underwent a simultaneous and parallel development, influencing each other.
The ruling family of Hunza is called Ayesha "aya-sha" (heavenly).
The runway is situated between Swat River and the Sham Baba mountainous range, with lush green gardens and large trees being added as "charm" to the climate in the area.
The sailors in Nearchos' fleet were "frightened at the weird tales told about an uninhabited island, which Arrian calls Nosala".
The salt comes from the weathering of rocks in the region.
The salt flowed until it hit an obstruction in the basement rock.
The salt then flowed and bulged through the overlying strata, intruding Cambrian aged salt on top of Cenozoic strata.
The same form of band music is played in the neighbouring Northern Areas.
The sand is highly mobile due to the strong winds that rise each year before the onset of the monsoon.
The sandy plains extend across to the west, with the altitude dropping to 150 m (490 ft) at the India-Pakistan border.
The scene was actually filmed in Preikestolen, Norway, due to the Indian government denying permission to film in Kashmir.
The scenic Dudipatsar Lake and Lulusar Lake and peaks are in the park.
The search team found that the tents had been buried by ice and snow rather than swept away.
The seasonality of rainfall in central Khyber Pakhtunkhwa shows very marked gradients from east to west.
The second challenge is the mountain's tendency to experience extreme storms lasting several days, which have resulted in many of the deaths on the peak.
The second model states that the rocks got to a certain point in subduction and then were forced back up through the channel they came down due to a space problem.
The second most widely spoken language of the Neelam Valley is Kashmiri.
The second phase of construction is currently underway as part of planned improvements under CPEC and other ancillary projects.
The second phase of the Greater Thal Canal Phase project (Choubara Branch) was launched in 2020.
The second phase will extend line to Kandahar and the third phase will eventually connect to Herat.
The second route, from Skardu, can be covered by jeep in few hours; however, a trek along this route can take two days.
The second winter ascent was made by the Polish climber Tomasz Mackiewicz and Frenchwoman Élisabeth Revol on January 25, 2018.
The sector employs 43.5% of the labor force and is a major source of foreign exchange.
The sector's growth rate surpasses that of agriculture and industry, accounting for 54% of GDP and over one-third of total employment.
The secular Pashtun leadership was also of the view that if joining India was not an option then they should espouse the cause of an independent ethnic Pashtun state rather than Pakistan.
The secular stance of Bacha Khan had driven a wedge between the ulama of the otherwise pro-Congress (and pro-Indian unity) Jamiat Ulema Hind (JUH) and Bacha Khan's Khudai Khidmatgars.
The sediment produced by erosion can damage fish habitat and wetlands, and often transports excess agricultural chemicals resulting in contaminated runoff.
The semi-industrialised economy is heavily dependent on agriculture, and industrial growth in Pakistan benefits significantly from agricultural expansion.
The senior high command officers in Pakistan Armed Forces, and Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, began to pressure General Yahya Khan to take armed action against Mujib and his party.
The separation of Sindh from Bombay Presidency triggered Sindhi Muslim nationalists to support the Pakistan Movement.
The severity of injuries varied across regions, with mountainous and remote areas particularly affected.
The severity of the damage caused by the earthquake is attributed to severe upthrust.
The shapes and materials of the people's homes reflect their practical needs and beliefs.
The shift in the course of the river is reported to be 4.8 kilometres (3.0 mi) towards India.
The side to the north with a mountain above facing south can have an extra month of the growing season.
The significance of the Hindu Kush mountain ranges has been recorded since the time of Darius I of the Achaemenid Empire.
The signing of the Instrument of Accession by Ahmad Yar Khan led his brother, Prince Abdul Karim, to revolt against his brother's decision due to their family rift in July 1948.
The simplification of Chandrabhaga to 'Chenab', with evident Persianate influence, probably occurred in early medieval times and is witnessed in Alberuni.
The site is also important in Sikhism for its association with the founder of the Sikh faith, Guru Nanak.
The site is currently threatened by erosion and improper restoration.
The site of Miri Qalat was investigated by French and Pakistani archaeologists from 1987 to 2007.
The site of the Kirthar National Park was initially designated a wildlife sanctuary in 1972 before getting the official status of national park two years later in 1974.
The sites were first excavated by John Marshall, who worked at Taxila over a period of twenty years from 1913.
The slippage rate along the Chaman fault system as the Indo-Australian plate moves northward (relative to the Eurasian plate) has been estimated at 10 mm/yr or more.
The small city of Quetta was almost completely destroyed, and the adjacent military cantonment was heavily damaged.
The smallest national park is the Ayubia, covering a total approximate area of 3,312 hectares (8,184.1 acres).
The smooth-coated otters in the Indus River represent a subspecies found nowhere else, the Sindh otter (Lutrogale perspicillata sindica).
The snow-covered white peaks enhance the beauty till June.
The so-called Two Economies Theory suggested that East and West Pakistan had different economic features which should not be regulated by a federal government in Islamabad.
The soil of the Thar Desert remains dry for much of the year, so it is prone to wind erosion.
The soils of this area are severely eroded, of a coarser nature and mixed with gravel and stones of various materials and sizes.
The sooty gull (Larus hemprichii) had a major breeding colony on the island, but is now extirpated because of the cats.
The source of the Sutlej is west of the catchment area of Lake Rakshastal also called La'angcuo in Tibet the lake adjacent to lake Manasarovar, as springs in an ephemeral stream.
The south face of the island slopes off gradually, while the north face is cliff-like with a sharp vertical drop.
The south/southeast side of the mountain is dominated by the Rupal Face.
The southern borders are far less contentious than those in northern Pakistan (Kashmir).
The southern boundary of the Karakoram is formed west to east by the Gilgit, Indus, and Shyok rivers, which separate the range from the north-western end of the Himalaya.
The southern district of Dera Ismail Khan has a Saraiki majority.
The southern end of the plateau is bounded by the Thal desert.
The southern limits are dominated by the Arabian Basin, a deep basin reaching depths over 4,200 metres (13,780 ft).
The southern part of Balochistan is called Kech Makran on the Pakistani side and Makran on the Iranian side which is also the name of a former Iranian province.
The southern parts of Azad Kashmir including Bhimber, Mirpur and Kotli districts has extremely hot weather in summers and moderate cold weather in winters.
The southern zone is arid with hot summers and relatively cold winters and scanty rainfall.
The southwest monsoon wind begins in mid-February and continues until the end of September, whereas the cool northerly wind blows during the winter months from October to January.
The southwestern portion of this main ridge is known as the Mazeno Ridge, and has a number of subsidiary peaks.
The sovereignty of the range in the Kashmir region is disputed among India, Pakistan, and China.
The special economic zone is expected to employ approximately 40,000 people, with possibility for future expansion.
The special economic zone will be completed in three phases.
The special economic zone will include manufacturing zones, logistics hubs, warehouses, and display centres.
The specific English moniker "Land of the Giant" was coined by the travel writer and historian Salman Rashid in the early 1990s to reflect this singular legend.
The spring monsoon has either skipped over the area or has caused it to rain so hard that floods have resulted.
The spur proper begins at an altitude of 5,400 metres (17,700 ft), where Advanced Base Camp is usually placed.
The state bordered the Gilgit Agency to the south and the former princely state of Nagar to the east.
The state capital was the town of Baltit (also known as Karimabad); another old settlement is Ganish Village which means 'Baba Ganesh village' (a Hindu name, Ganesh being name of a hindu deity).
The state did not include the enclave of Omani Gwadar, which was under Omani rule until 1958.
The state is administratively divided into three divisions which, in turn, are divided into ten districts.
The status of the park has been in dispute since and has become the issue of ongoing litigation between heirs of the former Mehtar and the Government of Pakistan.
The strongest western disturbances usually occur in the western and northern parts of Pakistan, where flooding is reported number of times during the winter season.
The struggle for Indian independence witnessed competing and conflicting interests in the Punjab.
The study included snout surveying of five glaciers namely Siachen, Mamostong, Chong Kumdan, Kichik Kumdan and Aktash Glaciers in Ladakh region.
The study of satellite images of the glacier showed that the glacier is retreating at a rate of about 110 metres a year and that the glacier size has decreased by almost 35 percent.
The stupa was built to commemorate the spot, where according to the Jataka tales, an incarnation of the Buddha called Prince Sattva sacrificed himself to feed seven hungry tiger cubs.
The sultanate held onto the Makran coast throughout the period of British colonial rule, but eventually, only Gwadar was left in the hands of the sultan.
The summer monsoonal winds also contribute to high wave energy levels.
The summit was reached for the first time by the Italian climbers Lino Lacedelli and Achille Compagnoni on a 1954 Italian expedition led by Ardito Desio.
The supply starts in April and continues till September because of a diverse range of varieties grown.
The surplus waters of the Ravi River have been transferred directly first to the Beas River through the Ravi-Beas Link.
The surrounding waters are home to nine species of sea snakes.
The survey terms it as the worst drought in the history of the country.
The surveyor's mark, K2, therefore continues to be the name by which the mountain is commonly known.
The suture zones, or remains of the subduction zone and the terranes that are joined, are found in the Tibetan plateau.
The swift pace of urbanization, coupled with population growth, presents further intricacies in this regard.
The table below shows a break-up of Gilgit-Baltistan first-language speakers.
The target was to “dynamite or bulldoze homes belonging to men suspected of harboring or supporting Taliban militants or carrying out other illegal activities”.
The team included a Pakistani member, Colonel Muhammad Ata-ullah, who had been a part of the 1953 American expedition.
The tehsils are used all over Pakistan except Sindh province where the word "taluka" is used instead, although the functions and authorities are the same.
The temperature occasionally drops as low as −25 °C (−13 °F).
The temperature of the pass in summer is extremely high.
The temperature ranges from −12.2 to 43.3 °C (10.0 to 109.9 °F).
The temple complex surrounds a pond named Katas which is regarded as sacred by Hindus.
The temples' pond is said in the Puranas to have been created from the teardrops of Shiva, after he wandered the Earth inconsolable after the death of his wife Sati.
The term "thar" signifies the desert-like characteristics of the region, marked by its dry climate and sparse vegetation.
The term Krishana is also found in the Atharvaveda.
The term Overseas Pakistani is officially recognized by the Government of Pakistan, with the Ministry of Overseas Pakistanis and Human Resource Development addressing their needs, welfare, and issues.
The term in the manuscript has been written variously as Pathwar, Pot har and Pothohar; and seems to be related to the Punjabi term for a plateau (Paṭhār).
The term is now used to refer to the entire range from the Batura Muztagh above Hunza in the west to the Saser Muztagh in the bend of the Shyok River in the east.
The terrain is mainly dry, grey-brown sand that stretches out.
The territory has a parliamentary form of government modelled after the British Westminster system, with the city of Muzaffarabad serving as its capital.
The territory may have corresponded to the area covering the lower and central Indus basin (present day Sindh and the southern Punjab regions of Pakistan).
The territory of present-day Gilgit-Baltistan became a separate administrative unit in 1970 under the name "Northern Areas".
The territory of present-day Gilgit-Baltistan became a separate administrative unit in 1972 under the name "Federally Administered Northern Areas".
The textile industry, a key player in Pakistan's manufacturing, contributes 9.5% to GDP and employs around 15 million people.
The then-British Government of Sindh Province decided to increase the capacity of the lake by introducing a feeder canal from the Indus River.
The thermal equator passes through upper Sindh, where the air is generally very dry.
The third and most recent settlement is that of Sirsukh, which was built by rulers of the Kushan empire, who ruled from nearby Purushapura (modern Peshawar).
The third ascent of K2 was in 1978, via a new route, the long and corniced Northeast Ridge.
The third model states that the thick continental crust of India further exacerbated the space problem and caused the corner flow of those rocks back up the channel.
The third-largest ethnic, though not linguistic, group are the Gujjars, whose villages are scattered throughout the valley.
The three projects completed as of 2011[update], Salal, Baglihar and Dul Hasti, have a combined storage capacity of 260 thousand acre-feet (320 million cubic metres).
The top of the route traversed left across the East Face to avoid a vertical headwall and joined the uppermost part of the Abruzzi route.
The total area on which this range spans around 6,475 km2 (2,500 sq mi).
The total length of Hub river is 134 km.
The total length of the Zhob River is 410 km, and it generally follows a northeasterly course.
The total length of the river is about 725 kilometres (450 mi).
The total length of the river varies in different sources.
The total project is expected to cost $1.02 billion.
The total protected land area represents 13% of Pakistan's landmass as of 2020, The Government of Pakistan plans to increase it to at least 15% by 2023.
The town (sometimes listed as a city) of Parachinar has a population of around five thousand predominantly {Turi}, {Bangash} and {jaji}.
The town has government hospital and many government schools.
The traditional source of the river is the Sênggê Kanbab (Sênggê Zangbo) or "Lion's Mouth", a perennial spring not far from the sacred Mount Kailash, marked by a long low line of Tibetan chortens.
The transition between the generally low-grade sediments of the "Tethys Himalaya" and the underlying low- to high-grade rocks of the "High Himalayan Crystalline Sequence" is usually progressive.
The transitional period after the monsoon season is cool and mild, leading to the winter season, when the temperature in January falls to 5 °C (41 °F) at night and 12 °C (54 °F) by day.
The transport landscape of Pakistan features various modern transit systems.
The treasure bore two seals: one depicting Saiful Maluk and the other depicting Badi-ul-Jamala (also rendered as Bediülcemal).
The treaty resulted in partitioning of the rivers rather than sharing of their waters.
The trek can be a tough hike and not particularly suitable for unfit or new trekkers.
The trek to the lakes begins just before the village of Gittidas, located between Jalkhad and Babusar Pass.
The tribe had several capitals, but none are populated today.
The tribe of Kalasha in southern Chitral still retain an ancient form of Polytheism mixed with Animism, a faith once dominant in the mountainous upper northeast of the district.
The tribe of the Gakhars/Khokhars, formed a large part of the Hindu Shahi army according to the Persian historian Firishta.
The tribesmen captured the towns of Muzaffarabad and Baramulla, the latter of which is 32 kilometres (20 mi) northwest of the state capital Srinagar.
The tug of war with the Muslim League to establish the appropriate electorate caused problems for his government.
The tunes of Khowar music are very different from those of Pashto, and the main instrument is the Chitrali sitar.
The twin peaks of Nun Kun are the only mountains over 7,000 m (4.3 miles) in this part of the Himalayas.
The twins are said to have shown hostility to one another from birth.
The two states of Hunza and Nagar were formerly one, ruled by a branch of the Shahreis, the ruling family of Gilgit, whose seat of government was Nagar.
The ultimate source of the Indus is in Tibet, but there is some debate about the exact source.
The underlying base of the hills consists of partly stabilized ancient transverse dunes, reflecting a west-to-east wind and nearly unlimited sand supply.
The undivided Punjab region was home to six rivers, of which five flow through Pakistan's Punjab province.
The unicameral Azad Kashmir Legislative Assembly elects both the Prime Minister and President.
The unicameral Provincial Assembly of Balochistan comprises 65 seats, of which 11 are reserved for women, and 3 are reserved for non-Muslims.
The unique floral and faunal wealth of the Himalayas is undergoing structural and compositional changes due to climate change.
The unique geographic relief features of the Indian subcontinent come into play in allowing all of the above factors to occur simultaneously.
The unit practiced on the Eiger in Switzerland in 1938.
The upper Indus Basin includes Punjab; the lower Indus Basin begins at the Panjnad River (the confluence of the eastern tributaries of the Indus) and extends south to the coast.
The upper areas of the region are relatively colder and often get snowfall in the winter.
The upper portions of the mountains are largely limestone, while the middle and southern portions of the mountain are shale which date to the middle Eocene era.
The upper reaches of the main Indus River and its tributaries lie in India whereas the lower reaches are in Pakistan.
The valley extends for approximately 200 kilometers along the Neelum River.
The valley floor sits at an elevation of 2,438 meters (7,999 feet).
The valley formed by the river was also exploited for its rich timber trees.
The valley formed by this stream is U-shaped with a river bed scattered with boulders and glacial morainic deposits.
The valley is 7,176 km2 (2,771 sq mi) in area, and is traversed by the Kabul River.
The valley is also formed by another major tributary that joins the Seul River, the Baira-Nalla.
The valley is enclosed on all sides by mountains, and is intersected by glens and ravines.
The valley is popularly believed to be one of the inspiration for the mythical valley of Shangri-La in James Hilton's 1933 novel, Lost Horizon.
The valley takes its name from the city of Peshawar, which is situated at the western part of the valley close to Warsak Dam.
The vast archaeological site includes neolithic remains dating to 3360 BCE, and Early Harappan remains dating to 2900–2600 BCE at Sarai Kala.
The vegetation is also highly dependent on the seasonal rainfall patterns which determine the ability of species to re-establish in the next sufficiently wet monsoon.
The vegetation is sparse and stunted and the winters are severely cold.
The vegetation of the Thal Desert consists predominantly of grasses and sedges which are most commonly used as fodder by the local population.
The village of Deosai lies close to Chilum chokki and is connected with the Kargil district of Ladakh through an all-weather road.
The village of Punjwarian is one of the villages close to the border of Indo-Pakistan.
The warm surface water moving toward the coast of Peru with El Niño is pushed west by the trade winds, thereby raising the temperature of the southern Pacific Ocean.
The waste produced by the troops stationed there is dumped in the crevasses of the glacier.
The water from these reservoirs as well as from various barrages are diverted to irrigate 26 million hectares (mha) of agricultural land, 16 mha in Pakistan and 10 mha in India.
The waters of the Chenab were allocated to Pakistan under the terms of the Indus Waters Treaty.
The waters of the Jhelum are allocated to Pakistan under the terms of the Indus Waters Treaty.
The waters of the Ravi River are allocated to India under the Indus Waters Treaty, signed by India and Pakistan.
The waters of the Ravi River drain into the Arabian Sea (Indian Ocean) through the Indus River in Pakistan.
The waterway network in Pakistan is in its infancy, with Karachi being the only major city situated next to the Arabian Sea.
The way leading to the park is quite narrow and dangerous, yet more risky during the rainy days.
The weather conditions also have an impact on the land cover patterns across the regions.
The weather conditions had made it difficult for the Army helicopter to go forth with a rescue operation on the 7,388 metres (24,239 ft) high Ultar Sar.
The website of the AJK government reports the literacy rate to be 74%, with the enrolment rate in primary school being 98% and 90% for boys and girls respectively.
The weight of shipments was 1.439 million tons.
The western bay of the harbor contains mangrove forests which border the Sandspit and Manora island.
The western disturbances are embedded in the mid-latitude subtropical westerly jet stream.
The western hills boast juniper, tamarisk, coarse grasses, and scrub plants.
The western part of the Thar Desert, that lies in the western foothills of the Aravallis, consists of sandy plains intercepted by eroded hills of low elevation.
The western regions of Pakistan became part of Achaemenid Empire around 517 BCE.
The western wing consisted of a merger of the North-West Frontier Province, West Punjab, Sind Province, and Baluchistan CCP.
The wet summer monsoon winds cause precipitation in India and all along the layered southern slopes of the Himalayas.
The whole project is estimated to cost US$76 million.
The wildlife of Cholistan desert mostly consists of migratory birds, especially the Houbara bustard who migrates to this part during winter.
The wildlife of the Arabian sea is diverse, and entirely unique because of the geographic distribution.
The winters (Nov-Mar) are cold and dry, while the summers (Apr-Jun) are warm to hot and very rainy.
The winters are generally cold even in the valleys, and heavy snow during the winter blocks passes and isolates the region.
The word "Act" was also deleted from the Constitution.
The word "India" is derived from the Indus River.
The word Jhelum is reportedly derived from the words Jal (pure water) and Ham (snow).
The word Kubhā which is the ancient name of the river is both a Sanskrit and Avestan word.
The word Sind is a Persian derivative of the Sanskrit term Sindhu, meaning "river," a reference to vast Indus River.
The work was placed on a war footing and was completed within 24 months in 1943.
The worst affected drainage is the Hadharaam drain, a tributary of the Ravi River.
The writ of the Government of Pakistan was restored more or less whole of the Kurram Agency by 2012 as result of the militay operations that pushed back militants back into the Afghanistan.
Their ancestor, Jagat Singh had migrated from Rajputana in the 17th century and converted to Islam.
Their culture has been strongly influenced by Islamic culture and Sufism, with a number of Sufi shrines spread across the province.
Their dates are still a matter of dispute, but it is beyond question that they reigned early in the Christian era.
Their goal was to scout new ways to ascend the north-western face.
Their logic behind that demand was that Punjabi people, Sindhi people and Baloch people have their provinces named after their ethnicities but that is not the case for Pashtun people.
Their natural habitat is in the Western Himalayan alpine shrub and meadows ecoregion.
Their population has decreased from 4,746 in 2001 to just a few dozens in recent times.
Their population of Chinkara has decreased from 3,000 in 2007 to just a little above 1,000 in 2010 due to non-permit hunting of the species by influential political families.
Their role is similar to district governor or prefect, with responsibility for implementing government strategy and developing initiatives arising out of it.
Then he carried the wealth and the captured slaves, returning to his capital through the Hindu Kush.
Then there are 2 low-cost carriers with both having 5 Airbus A320s in their fleet: fly Jinnah and Air Sial.
Then, after customs formalities, a quick daylight drive through the Pass was made.
Then, due to the Pakistani incursions during the Kargil War in 1999, India abandoned plans to withdraw from Siachen, wary of further Pakistani incursions if they vacate the Siachen Glacier posts.
Then, with the assistance of the Chinese government, Pakistan began construction of the Karakoram Highway (KKH), which was completed in 1978.
Theories of the mechanism of the monsoon primarily try to explain the reasons for the seasonal reversal of winds and the timing of their reversal.
There are 131 plant species in Cholistan from 89 genera and 24 families.
There are 14 species of birds of special conservation interest on account of being threatened (as per IUCN Red List 2005), very rare or key species of the park.
There are 48 departments in Punjab government.
There are 71 tombs situated in the areas inhabited by the Chhutta tribe.
There are 91 airports with paved runways, of which 14 have runways longer than 3,047 meters.
There are a number of subsidiary summits, including North Peak (7,816 m or 25,643 ft) some three kilometres (2 mi) north of the main summit.
There are about 37 national parks in Pakistan, 8 out of these are in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
There are also a number of other peaks of the Kirthar Mountains exceeding 5,500 ft (1,700 m), which all receive occasional heavy snowfall during the winter season.
There are also a variety of precious and semi-precious minerals that are mined.
There are also companies such as Bykea that offer ride-hailing services with bikes or motorcycles in Karachi, Lahore, Rawalpindi, Peshawar and others.
There are also graphite deposits at Mohriwali.
There are also hopes the route will eventually provide a link to Europe and Central Asia, and carry passengers.
There are also motorcycling operators in the cities.
There are also numerous privately run services that use cars and minibuses of various types throughout Pakistan, providing a reliable and quick means of transport.
There are also occasional sightings of The Sindhi phekari, ped lynx or Caracal cat.
There are also reservoirs of low-grade coal, chalk, bauxite, and zircon.
There are also several smaller airports which have flights to and from the Gulf because of the large Pakistani diaspora working in the region.
There are also supposed to be some remains on Tulaji across the valley from Talaja.
There are also the gulfs of Khambhat and Kutch on the Indian Coast.
There are around 250 to 300 species of plants on the Margalla Hills.
There are conflicting studies about the soil liquefaction aspects.
There are different maps for it based on recent tectonics, seismicity and earthquake focal mechanism.
There are many cultural and mythological aspects associated with the Himalayas.
There are many named and unnamed peaks in Pakistan that are currently not included in this list.
There are mineral and marble resources in Azad Kashmir close to Mirpur and Muzaffarabad.
There are more than 1.9 million people who are highly vulnerable due to climate change with an additional 10 million people at risk in Nepal.
There are more than 50,000 pieces of rock art (petroglyphs) and inscriptions all along the Karakoram Highway in Gilgit-Baltistan, concentrated at ten major sites between Hunza and Shatial.
There are no trees; the largest shrub is Prosopis juliflora, which was introduced into South Asia in 1877 from South America.
There are only four passenger compartments, so most pilgrims stay in tents, while many have to stay under trees or exposed to the sun.
There are remnants of thousand-year-old cities and structures, with a notable example in Sindh being that of Mohenjo Daro.
There are reports of early flowering and fruiting in some tree species, especially rhododendron, apple, and box myrtle.
There are scattered communities of Kashmiri speakers, notably in the Neelam Valley, where they form the second-largest language group after speakers of Hindko.
There are several forts on these hills and all of them were built by Janjua Rajputs and their ancestors the Pandavs at Katas Raj as well as the Janjua Shahi Dynasty of 2nd Kabul Shahis at Nandna fort.
There are several islands in the Arabian Sea, with the most important ones being Lakshadweep Islands (India), Socotra (Yemen), Masirah (Oman) and Astola Island (Pakistan).
There are several natural caves and coves on the island.
There are several other tributaries nearby, which may form a longer stream than Sênggê Kanbab, but unlike the Sênggê Kanbab, are all dependent on snowmelt.
There are several passes in the range which are passable, but the only one often used is the Gaji Lak Pass on the road from Zidi and Khuzdar to Jhalawan.
There are some unique features of the rains that the monsoon brings to the Indian subcontinent.
There are speakers of Dogri in the southernmost district of Bhimber, where they are estimated to represent almost a third of the district's population.
There are three main seasons and two transitional periods.
There are two factors that hold Nepal back from reaching sufficient status and thus stand out.
There are two otter species in the Indus River basin: the Eurasian otter in the northeastern highland sections and the smooth-coated otter elsewhere in the river basin.
There are very few, vague laws and policies in regards to noise levels.
There are very small numbers of residents who are the adherents of Roman Catholicism denomination of Christianity, Hinduism and Sikhism, mainly living in Peshawar and other urban centres.
There had been tensions between Pakistan and Afghanistan ever since Afghanistan voted against Pakistan's inclusion in the United Nations in 1948.
There has been a proposal to build a 214-kilometre (133 mi) long heavy freight and irrigation canal, to be known as the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) to connect the Sutlej and Yamuna rivers.
There is a monsoon season with frequent flooding due to heavy rainfall, and a dry season with significantly less rainfall or none at all.
There is a project to introduce tigers and Asian elephants too in KNP near the huge Hub Dam Lake.
There is a shrine in the middle of the lake marking Noori's grave, which is visited by devotees.
There is a significant number of warships of all nations coming in and out of the port, which makes it a very safe bubble.
There is a small mosque dedicated to the Muslim saint Pir Khawaja Khizr, which is used by the mainland fishermen during the fishing season.
There is also a cricket stadium in Muzaffarabad with a capacity of 8,000 people.
There is also a dargah named after him, the Haji Ratan Dargah, in Bathinda, where he settled after his conversion to Islam.
There is also an increasing risk of water borne illnesses accompanied by an increasing lack of safe drinking water.
There is also snowfall during the winter season.
There is also the increased risk of cancer.
There is an Indus site on the Amu Darya at Shortughai in northern Afghanistan, and the Indus site Alamgirpur at the Hindon River is located only 28 km (17 mi) from Delhi.
There is an important literature produced in the province, mainly in Pashto but also in Urdu and in Hindko, and in 2022 more than 25,000 books were published in these three languages.
There is an ongoing process of gradual shift to larger local languages, but at least in the Neelam Valley there still exist communities for whom Kashmiri is the sole mother tongue.
There is another route called Burgy la via Burgy Nala Skardu.
There is another triple junction where the Eurasian plate meets the Arabian plate.
There is high diversity of the other plants as well including cannabis, adhatoda vasica and fabaceae as well as bamboo.
There is less conclusive evidence of light precipitation becoming less frequent while heavy precipitation became both more frequent and more intense.
There is no Climate Finance Plan and emissions and temperature rising rate ranking at critically insufficient.
There is no evidence that Hunza life expectancy is significantly above the average of poor, isolated regions of Pakistan.
There is no official data on the total number of Bahais in AJK.
There is no source of fresh water, and the vegetation depends on occasional rainfall and soil moisture for survival.
There is only one island off the coast of Makran, Astola Island, near Pasni although there are several small islets.
There is some evidence that the high rate of erosion caused by the modern Sutlej River has influenced the local faulting and rapidly exhumed rocks above Rampur.
There is thus very wide extension of Indian cultural forms in Makran in the seventh century, even in the period when it fell under Persian sovereignty.
There was a small Jain community left in Punjab by the 16th century, while the Buddhist community had largely disappeared by the turn of the 10th century.
There was a violent capture of the fortress of Kharphocho.
There was also a Christian minority of 26,462 individuals in the province.
There was also a corresponding decline of 0.5 cold days, 0.85 extreme cold days, 1 cold night, and 2.4 extreme cold nights per decade.
There was no democratic set-up during this period.
There was strong opposition and resentment to the joint electorate system in West Pakistan.
There was virtually no infrastructure, and communication was badly affected.
There were also Hindu and Christian minorities in the province.
There were also observed some medicinal plants which are locally famous i.e.
There were open calls for self-determination.
There were other tensions in the area as well, particularly those that involved agitations by Pashtun tribesmen against the Imperial government.
There were over 6,000 monasteries in Tibet, including the residence of the Dalai Lama.
There were two significant landslides, one in Chella Bandi, Muzaffarabad, and another in the Pir Panjal Range.
There would also be one daily bus in each direction between the Sust and Taxkorgan border areas of the two political entities.
There, the M-6 (which is proposed with construction work to begin soon) will start; the M6 will end at Hyderabad, where it will meet the existing M9 motorway to Karachi.
Therefore, Khan and his military government wanted to divert the nationalistic threats and violence against non-East Pakistanis.
Therefore, Pakistan is already at high risk due to debt from China.
Therefore, energy efficiency requirements in building codes and long-term transport planning will prove important.
Therefore, in the context of the monsoon, the two together came to be known as the El Niño–Southern Oscillation (ENSO) effect.
Therefore, the agricultural calendar of India is governed by the monsoon.
Thirteen climbers from several expeditions died in the 1986 K2 disaster.
Thorny and prickly shrubs as well as perennial herbs capable of enduring droughts, are also present.
Though agriculture and livestock play a dominant role in the provincial economy by contributing 47% of its GDP.
Though land and water resources haven't increased proportionately, productivity gains, especially from the Green Revolution in the late 1960s and 1970s, significantly boosted wheat and rice yields.
Though now an arid region, Cholistan once had a large river flowing through it that was formed by the waters of the Sutlej and Yamuna Rivers.
Though very internationally unlikely, but even for some local historians like Hassan Hasrat from Skardu and for some national writers like Ahmed Hasan Dani it was originated in same region.
Threatened with impeachment, President Musharraf resigned on 18 August 2008, and was succeeded by Asif Ali Zardari.
Three manufacturers were ordered to produce 60,000 four-stroke vehicles, but they reportedly supplied 2,000 to the government which are now plying on city roads.
Three of the world's longest glaciers outside of Earth's polar regions are found in Gilgit-Baltistan.
Three of the world's longest glaciers outside the polar regions are found in Gilgit-Baltistan: the Biafo Glacier, the Baltoro Glacier, and the Batura Glacier.
Three years later however, when the Arabs invaded, it was regarded as the "frontier of Al-Hind".
Three years later, on 5 July 1986, he reached the summit via the Abruzzi Spur (double with Broad Peak West Face solo) as a member of Agostino da Polenza's international expedition.
Through conservation, a large region of Thal desert has been afforested.
Through the construction of a bund on the eastern side, it is said that the lake was formed by the union of two lakes: Sonehri and Keenjhar.
Through the importation of gas cylinders from other provinces, many private gas contractors offer gas cylinders.
Throughout history the delta has survived this wave action because of the large discharge of fresh water to counter the erosional impact of waves.
Throughout its lifetime, the TDA initiated a number of projects including the Sheep Breeding Scheme in 1952, the Open Auction Scheme in 1954 and the Peasant Grant Scheme of 1955.
Throughout most of the region, the average rainfall exceeds 1400 mm, with the highest average rainfall occurring near Muzaffarabad (around 1800 mm).
Throughout much of its history, the Pothohar Plateau was primarily dominated by the local Khokhar and Gakhar tribes.
Throughout the centuries, Pashtun clans, particularly the Afridis and the Afghan Shinwari, have regarded the Pass as their own preserve and have levied a toll on travellers for safe conduct.
Thus Gujarat state of India is also a riparian state of the Indus river as the Rann of Kutch area lying west of Kori Creek in the state is part of the Indus River Delta.
Thus Haryana claims to be a riparian state of the Indus river basin.
Thus began the Battle of the Hydaspes in 326 BCE; the exact site remains unknown.
Thus the name Siachen refers to a land with an abundance of roses.
Thus there are three mountain ranges in northern Pakistan: Karakoram, Himalayas and Hindu Kush.
Thus, Walker established the relationship between southern oscillation and quantities of monsoon rains in India.
Thus, although annual precipitation is generally higher in the east than in the west, local variations are often more important.
Thus, similar seasonal precipitation patterns in other parts of the world are not always true monsoons.
Thus, the erosion, subsidence and lack of sedimentation are resulting in the shrinking and sinking of the Indus River delta.
Thus, the glacier is a major source of the Indus and feeds the largest irrigation system in the world.
Tibetan control of the region lasted until late-800s CE.
Tilicho Lake in Nepal, in the Annapurna massif, is one of the highest lakes in the world.
Tilla Jogian is an abandoned Hindu temple and monastic complex located on the summit of the Tilla Jogian mountain in the Salt Range.
Tilla Jogian, second highest peak in Potwar The Potwar Plateau (also Potowar or Potohar) is a plateau in the province of Punjab, Pakistan and the western parts of Pakistan administered Kashmir.
Timing: A timely northward shift of the subtropical westerly jet at the beginning of summer is critical to the onset of the southwest monsoon over India.
Timur, also known as Temur or Tamerlane in Western scholarly literature, marched with his army to Delhi, plundering and killing all the way.
To date, over 1,052 cities and settlements have been found, mainly in the general region of the Ghaggar-Hakra River and its tributaries.
To distinguish this region from India's state West Bengal (which is also known as "Indian Bengal"), East Pakistan was known as "Pakistani Bengal".
To establish the ownership of these waters, Indus Water Treaty was signed between India and Pakistan on 1 April 1960, under the monitoring of the World Bank.
To fight the increased rate of forest fires, citizens have begun beating the fires with green branches and mud, construction of fire lines, and are raising awareness about the wildfires.
To guard against this settlements of Mangals and Muqbils were half invited half allowed to push themselves in conditions of vassalage, and on promise to afford a buttress against any enemy aggression.
To help protect the animals from poaching, the WWF has created the Khunzerav Village Organization, which relies on people living in the area to report poaching or endangered animal sightings.
To its northeast, it is separated from the Siachen Glacier by the Conway Saddle (or pass).
To reach the lake, you start your hiking from a small village near Lulusar, called Besal.
To reach this goal Nepal submitted two separate plans to account for whatever future they experience the first being WAM (with additional measures) and the second being WEM (with existing measures).
To support the troops, glacial ice has been cut and melted with chemicals.
To the ancient Greeks, the river was known as the Soastus.
To the east of Annapurna are the 8,000 m (5.0 miles) peaks of Manaslu and across the border in Tibet, Shishapangma.
To the east of the Pothohar Plateau is located Azad Kashmir.
To the north is the western end of the Karakoram range.
To the north of the Khyber Pass lies the country of the Shalmani tribe and Mullagori tribe.
To the south is Afridi Tirah, while the inhabitants of villages in the Pass itself are Afridi clansmen.
To the south lay Sindh and Rajputana, while on the east the rivers Jumna and Tons separated it from the United Provinces.
To the south of these lies Kathmandu, the capital of Nepal and the largest city in the Himalayas.
To the south the mountains decrease in size towards Bedor Hill, with a height of 3,320 ft (1,010 m).
To the south, Nanga Parbat has what is often referred to as the highest mountain face in the world: the Rupal Face rises 4,600 m (15,090 ft) above its base.
To the south, across a series of low mountains, lies the wide Peshawar valley.
To the south, the Indus glacier was the main valley glacier, which flowed 120 kilometres (75 mi) down from the Nanga Parbat massif to 870 metres (2,850 ft) elevation.
To the west of the valley lies the Khyber Pass.
To this period may be ascribed the fine statues and bas-reliefs found in Gandhara and Udyana.
To visit this Lake, one must venture beyond Naran in the Kaghan Valley.
Toba Salem Sar and Toba Nawa Kahu were the worst affected areas where 50 sheep died due to lack of water.
Today Baltistan bears similarity to Ladakh physically and culturally (although not in religion).
Today, Muslims make up 90% of the population, and are more dominant in urban than rural areas.
Today, in the Muzaffarabad District the preferred local name for the language is Hindko, although it is still apparently more closely related to the core dialects of Pahari.
Today, remittances from British Mirpuri community make a critical role in AJK's economy.
Today, the Indian plate continues to be driven horizontally at the Tibetan Plateau, which forces the plateau to continue to move upwards.
Today, the Sutlej Valley is inhabited by nomadic descendants of the Zhangzhung, who live in tiny villages of yak herders.
Together the two national parks protect 88,000 hectares (220,000 acres).
Together with the Kirthar Mountains on the border between Balochistan and Sindh Province, the Sulaiman Mountains form the Sulaiman-Kirthar geologic province.
Topographically, the belt has many superlatives: the highest rate of uplift (nearly 10 mm/year at Nanga Parbat), the highest relief (8848 m at Mt.
Total annual rainfall has been seen to progressively decrease from the northern end of the desert to the south.
Tourism in Punjab is regulated by the Tourism Development Corporation of Punjab.
Tourism is mostly in trekking and mountaineering, and this industry is growing in importance.
Towards its southern end, it connects with the Spin Ghar Range near the Kabul River.
Towards its southern end, it connects with the White Mountains near the Kabul River.
Towards the west, it extends into the provinces of Sindh and Punjab in Pakistan.
Towns are found throughout the delta, but there are no large cities on the delta south of Hyderabad.
Traditional accounts attribute the damming of the Satpara Stream to the Balti king Ali Sher Khan Anchan (1595–1633).
Traffic jams are a common scene in major cities across Pakistan.
Transfer of surplus water from one basin to another, termed as interbasin water transfer has been effectively implemented on the Ravi River.
Transport in Pakistan (Urdu: پاکِستان میں نقل و حمل) is extensive and varied.
Transportation challenges in Pakistan are escalating due to poor planning, inadequate governance, and corrupt practices.
Travel through the area is difficult and dangerous, although the government is attempting to develop certain areas into tourist and trekking sites.
Traveling along the Makran Coastal Highway, one can easily reach Sapat Beach in Boji Koh, another beach in Balochistan.
Traveling at speeds up to 12 m/s (43 km/h; 27 mph), the disturbance moves towards the Indian subcontinent until the Himalayas inhibits its development, upon which the depression rapidly weakens.
Traveling through the Kij valley further west (then under the government of Persia) Hiuen Tsang saw some 100 Buddhist monasteries and 6000 priests.
Trees shed their leaves to avoid loss of moisture.
Trees were planted, and mosques and temples built along the road.
Tremors continue in the vicinity of Quetta.
Tremors continue in the vicinity of Quetta; the most recent major earthquake occurred in October 2008.
Tributaries are listed from the mouth to the source.
Tributary river of River Indus; flows from Tangir Valley District Diamer down to the river Indus with Karakuram Highway.
Trips to the mountain is undertaken mostly in summer, since from late November until March the snowfall makes it difficult to climb.
Turkey - An Istanbul-Tehran-Islamabad passenger rail service was proposed recently.
Turkey delivered $150 million in aid, sent 30 aircraft with medical teams and relief goods, and built tent cities for 70,000 people.
Turkic tribes practising Zoroastrianism arrived in Gilgit during the 7th century, and founded the Trakhan dynasty in Gilgit.
Turkmenistan - Via Afghanistan (proposed) – avoiding 4 ft 8+1⁄2 in (1,435 mm) standard gauge intervening.
Two interesting sites are close to Kathwai, Kutte Mar, and Tulaja Fort.
Two of its major tributaries, the Budhil and Nai or Dhona join 64 kilometres (40 mi) downstream from its source.
Two types of camels are found in Cholistan: Marrecha, or Mahra, is used for transportation or racing/dancing.
Ultimately, the southern oscillation was found to be simply an atmospheric component of the El Niño/La Niña effect, which happens in the ocean.
Umerkot district in the Thar Desert is Pakistan's only Hindu-majority district.
Umerkot district of the province is the only Hindu majority area.
Under British rule, modern Pakistan was primarily divided into the Sind Division, Punjab Province, and the Baluchistan Agency.
Under Huvishka's successor, Vasushka, the dominions of the Kushan kings shrank.
Under his leadership the Chathas gained several successes over the Sikhs,and it at one time looked as if the progress of the Sikh arms had been arrested and their dominion in the Doab annihilated.
Under his rule, Buddhist monks were reportedly killed, and Buddhist shrines attacked.
Under the 1962 constitution, Pakistan became a presidential republic.
Under the Arab Umayyads (661–750), many Shias sought asylum in the region of Sindh, to live in relative peace in the remote area.
Under the Indus Waters Treaty of 1960, the waters of the Ravi and two other rivers of the Punjab (Sutlej and Beas River) were allocated to India.
Under the chieftainship of Shaikha Khokhar, the Khokhars resisted the Timurid invasion of Punjab in 1398 CE.
Under the greatest Kushan king, Kanishka, Swat became an important region for the production of Buddhist art, and numerous Buddhists shrines were built in the area.
Under the high-warming RCP8.5 scenario where the annual emissions continue to increase for the rest of the century, the expected regional warming is 2.3–3.2 °C and 4.2–6.5 °C, respectively.
Under the rule of Mihirakula, Buddhism was suppressed as he himself became virulently anti-Buddhist after a perceived slight against him by a Buddhist monk.
Under the system, an electoral college would be responsible for electing the president and national assembly.
Under their rule, Hinduism ascended, and Sanskrit is believed to have been the lingua franca of the locals during this time.
Under this scenario, it is anticipated that net CO2 emissions will remain negative from 2020 to 2030, approach 'zero' between 2035 and 2045, and then revert to negative values by 2050.
Under this treaty, the two countries also agreed to exchange data and co-operate in matters related to the treaty.
Unemployment has been reduced due to the establishment of industrial zones.
Unfortunately, it is hunted by locals and foreigners.
Ungti Chu and Pare Chu rivers which drain the southeastern part of Ladakh are tributaries of Sutlej river.
Universal suffrage was abolished in favour of a system dubbed 'Basic Democracy'.
Unlike more easterly parts of Pakistan, Quetta does not have a monsoon season of heavy rainfall.
Unofficially, it was known as Sarhad (Urdu: سرحد), derived from the province's Urdu name given to it by the Mughals, which means "frontier".
Unprecedented torrential monsoon rains caused severe flooding in 16 districts of Sindh province.
Unprecedented torrential monsoon rains caused severe flooding in 16 districts of Sindh.
Unregulated sand and gravel mining has severely degraded the Swat River in Pakistan, transforming its natural course and increasing its deadliness, particularly during floods.
Until 1962, the martial law continued while Field Marshal Ayub Khan purged a number of politicians and civil servants from the government and replaced them with military officers.
Until the end of 2007, the route had been relatively safe, since the tribes living there (mainly the Afridi, a Pashtun tribe) were paid by the Pakistani government to keep the area safe.
Up until 1983, Chitral Gol was considered to be the private property of the former Mehtar of Chitral.
Upon completion of CPEC-related infrastructure projects, transit times between Kashgar, China and Pakistan's Gwadar Port will be greatly reduced.
Urdu and English serve as the official languages, with Urdu being the country's lingua franca and a unifying force among over 75% of Pakistanis.
Urdu being the national language is used and understood by all the residents and serves as a lingua franca.
Urdu dramas dominate the television entertainment industry, renowned for their quality since the 1990s.
Use of firearms, polluting water, cleaning of land for cultivation, destruction of wildlife is banned in these areas.
Variability in monsoon rainfall, influenced by local Hadley circulation and tropical sea surface temperatures, is the main factor behind wet and dry years.
Various farming activities result in the erosion of soil particles.
Various kinds of khaddar-cloth are made for local consumption, and fine khaddar bedclothes and coarse lungies are woven here.
Various programs focused on adaptation and mitigation have been developed within the Pakistani government.
Vegetation and wildlife of the Indus delta are threatened by the reduced inflow of fresh water, along with extensive deforestation, industrial pollution and global warming.
Vegetation on the island is sparse and largely consists of scrubs and large bushes.
Very high altitudes modify the climate in the cold, snow-covered northern mountains; temperatures on the Balochistan plateau are somewhat higher.
Vice-Admiral Syed Mohammad Ahsan, Commander-in-Chief of the Pakistan Navy, had previously served as political and military adviser of East Pakistan to former President Ayub Khan.
Villagers reported abundance of fresh water for drinking and agriculture.
WEM is based primarily on already existing policies and highlights the energy sector as the main target for CO2 reduction.
Walker noticed that the quantity of rainfall in the Indian subcontinent was often negligible in years of high pressure over Darwin (and low pressure over Tahiti).
Walker noticed that when pressure was high in Tahiti, it was low in Darwin, and vice versa.
Wanda Rutkiewicz, Krystyna Palmowska, and Anna Czerwinska reached the summit on July 15.
Wars in neighboring Afghanistan in the 1980s and 1990s pushed millions of Afghan refugees into Pakistan, mainly in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and tribal areas, with some in Karachi and Quetta.
Water availability per capita is projected to decrease.
Water from Zhob River is used for irrigation in the district.
Water is collected seasonally in a system of natural pools called Toba, or manmade pools called Kund.
Water lilies grow in abundance in the numerous lakes and ponds, particularly in the lower Sindh region.
Waters used for consumptive purposes will also remain unaffected.
Weather extremes are notable from the hot and barren south to the cool hills of the north.
Wegge was critical of the government scheme, claiming that it was based on financial considerations, with the Pakistani government hoping to attract tourists to the area.
Well over US$6.2 billion (400 billion Pakistani rupees) in aid arrived from all around the world.
Western disturbances are important for the development of the Rabi crop, which includes the locally important staple wheat.
Western disturbances are more frequent and stronger in the winter season.
Western disturbances are usually associated with cloudy sky, higher night temperatures and unusual rain.
Western disturbances originate in the Mediterranean region in Mediterranean sea.
Western disturbances start declining in numbers after winter.
Western disturbances, specifically the ones in winter, bring moderate to heavy rain in low-lying areas and heavy snow to mountainous areas of the Indian Subcontinent.
What later became the Princely states of Pakistan chose at first to remain independent.
What this manipulation indicates is that even before formally becoming a part of Pakistan, Balochistan had fallen prey to political victimization.
Wheat among them is one of the most important crops, which helps to meet India's food security.
When American actress Angelina Jolie came to Pakistan on a UN goodwill mission in 2004, this rock formation caught her attention and inspired her to name it 'Princess of Hope'.
When British troops stormed the fort, they reportedly found it guarded by four or five men who had no guns to fire back with, and so the fort quickly surrendered and Karachi captured.
When EQUINOO effects are factored in, certain failed forecasts, like the acute drought of 2002, can be further accounted for.
When Mountbatten was asked by Collins and Lapierre if he would have sabotaged Pakistan had he known that Jinnah was dying of tuberculosis, he replied 'most probably'.
When asked by Alexander how he wished to be treated, Porus replied "Treat me as a king would treat another king".
When he failed in his attempts to meet General Yahya Khan, Masud too resigned from his position as AOC of Dacca airbase and took retirement from Air Force.
When monsoons diminished even further, the dried-up Hakra became an intermittent river, and the urban Harappan civilisation declined, becoming localized in smaller agricultural communities.
When the Abbasid caliphate began to disintegrate, the delta came under the control of the increasingly autonomous province centered at Mansura.
When the British established it as a province, they called it "North West Frontier Province" (abbreviated as NWFP) due to its relative location being in the northwest of the British Indian Empire.
When the Second World War broke out, nationalism in British India had already divided into religious movements.
When the armies of Alexander crossed the Indus in its eastward migration, probably in Udabhandapura, he was greeted by the ruler of Taxila, Omphis.
When the federal general election was held, the Awami League emerged as the single largest party in the Pakistani parliament.
When the great ancient trade routes connecting these regions ceased to be important, the city sank into insignificance and was finally destroyed in the 5th century by the invading Hunas.
When the group returned to Germany, Adolf Hitler met with them.
When the moist air meets mountains, it rises and upon subsequent cooling, its moisture condenses and is released as rain, typically heavy rain.
When the river passes Jamshoro, it ends in a large delta to the South of Thatta in the Sindh province of Pakistan.
When the treaty was under debate, India had taken advance action to develop the three rivers, which were eventually allocated to it under the treaty.
When they collide with the mountain slopes, winter depressions provide heavy precipitation.
When this water retreats, it leaves behind salts in the delta's soil.
When travelling eastwards from Chilas on the Karakoram Highway, Lake Daraham Sir is located near the larger Sambaksar Lake and Ganai Gali.
When wells are dug that happen to yield sweet tasting water, people tend to settle near them, but such wells are difficult and dangerous to dig, sometimes claiming the lives of the well-diggers.
When western disturbances move across northwest India before the onset of monsoon, a temporary advancement of monsoon current appears over the region.
Where there is no such insulation, the rate of retreat is high.
While IPCC estimates predict a global mean SLR of 0.2–0.6 m by 2100, a rise of 0.7 m is predicted for the region of South Asia (which includes the Pakistan coast).
While he was in a Pakistan prison, Syed Nazrul Islam was the acting president with Tajuddin Ahmed as the prime minister.
While it is a National Park, the Gujjar-Bakwarwal travel large distances to utilize the Deosai National Park as grazing lands.
While it is the third-largest Pakistani province in terms of both its population and its economy, it is geographically the smallest.
While many Balochis support the demand for autonomy, the majority are not interested in seceding from Pakistan.
While modern media and tourism brochures frequently pluralize the name to "Land of the Giants," historical research into the original Shina etymology and oral traditions supports the singular usage.
While recently coal deposits have been discovered in Thar, Sindh.
While the 2009 reforms have added to the self-identification of the region, they have not resolved the constitutional status of the region within Pakistan.
While the interim constitution does not give them a choice, the people of Azad Kashmir have not considered any option other than joining Pakistan.
While the name was rejected by the Royal Geographical Society, it was used on several maps and continues to be used occasionally.
While the plant is not enough to meet the needs of the entire village, Pakistan's Ministry of Science and other NGOs have shown interest in replicating it to alleviate water shortages in the delta.
While there is general agreement that the fault is slipping at a rate of at least 10 mm/yr, there is a report of volcanic rocks in Pakistan dated to 2 m.y.
Wickwire endured an overnight bivouac about 150 metres (490 ft) below the summit, one of the highest bivouacs in history.
Widespread extreme rainfall events are those rainfall events which are larger than 150 mm/day and spread over a region large enough to cause floods.
Wild olive trees are abundantly found along other trees and plants.
Wildlife in Pakistan is confronting a critical situation, marked by the dwindling populations of numerous species.
Winter in some parts even starts in late October-early November.
Winter starts in late November and ends in late February with average temperatures near 4–5 °C (39–41 °F).
Winter temperatures occasionally dip to 0 °C (32 °F).
Winters (December to February) are mild, with daytime temperatures ranging from 27 °C (81 °F) to 29 °C (84 °F), and nighttime lows typically between 19 °C (66 °F) and 21 °C (70 °F).
Winters are cold, with minimum mean temperatures in Punjab of about 4 °C (39 °F) in January, and sub-zero temperatures in the far north and Balochistan.
Winters are extremely cold in the north and the milder they get the more you go to the south.
Winters are mild on the plains, with temperatures never falling below freezing point.
With Ayub Khan ousted from office in 1969, Commander of the Pakistani Army, General Yahya Khan became the country's second ruling chief martial law administrator.
With Eastern Himalaya included, the entire Hindu Kush Himalaya region is home to an estimated 35,000+ species of plants and 200+ species of animals.
With a coastline of about 1046 km, Pakistan has enough fishery resources that remain to be fully developed.
With a population of over 127 million, it is the most populous province in Pakistan and the second most populous subnational polity in the world.
With a positive IOD, winds over the Indian Ocean blow from east to west.
With a tower 38 metres (125 ft) high, it is one of the tallest in Pakistan.
With around 82 million internet users as of May 2020, Pakistan ranks among top ten globally, and its ICT industry is projected to exceed $10 billion by 2020.
With its contribution ranging from 52.1% to 64.5% in the Service Sector and 56.1% to 61.5% in the agriculture sector.
With its diverse cultures, landscapes, and attractions, Pakistan drew around 6.6 million foreign tourists in 2018.
With lush forests, verdant alpine meadows, and snow-capped mountains, Swat is one of the country's most popular tourist destinations.
With more than 7,253 known glaciers, Pakistan contains more glacial ice than any other country on Earth outside the polar regions.
With no intel and low morale, they performed poorly and were inexperienced in guerrilla tactics, Pakistan Armed Forces and their assets were defeated by the Bangladesh Liberation Forces.
With regard to annual household income, people living in the higher areas are more dependent on remittances than are those living in the lower areas.
With such action, the situation became highly critical and civil control over the province slipped away from the government.
With the Independence of Bangladesh, Pakistan lost 20 of its districts and so there were 106 districts.
With the appropriate infrastructure in place, the British hoped to utilise Sindh for its economic potential.
With the defeat of the Greeks, the land was once more under Hindu rule.
With the exception of Pashto and English, those languages belong to the Indo-Aryan language family.
With the help of the small Janapadas of Punjab, he had gone on to conquer much of the North West Indian subcontinent.
With the mountain lacking a local name, the name Mount Godwin-Austen was suggested in honour of Henry Godwin-Austen, an early explorer of the area.
With the new plane, the cancellation of flights is much less frequent.
With the northward shift of the vertical sun, this jet shifts north, too.
With this in consideration, climate change policy and framework for LAPA (Local Adaptation Plans of Action) were prepared in 2011 primarily focusing on addressing climatic hazards.
With this stroke of the spear, Parvati emerged from the netherworld.
With this, the Sammas became independent.
Within Pakistan, the Gomal River forms the boundary between South Waziristan and Balochistan.
Within cities, buses provide a significant role in commuting a large number of travelers from one city to another.
Within the Kirthar Mountains are 21 prehistoric sites.
Within the next few centuries of human settlement on the Tibetan Plateau, this region became inhabited by Tibetans, who preceded the Balti people of Baltistan.
Within the river delta, about 140,000 people (16% of the population) depended on the mangrove forests for their livelihood, and 60% depended on the forests for fuels.
Within the valley, the Soan Nadi runs near the Sutlej and merges with it at the southern part of the valley at the left bak (eastern bank).
Without climate change heatwaves, more severe that those who occurred in 2010 are expected to arrive 1 time in 312 years.
Without the thermal low pressure caused by the heating, there was no monsoon over the Indian subcontinent, which led to the deposition of dust and the desertification of the region.
Without the thermal low pressure caused by the heating, there was no monsoon over the Indian subcontinent.
Women made up a larger portion of casualties as many were inside cleaning after the morning meal.
Women, especially those who were pregnant or had caregiving responsibilities faced additional health challenges due to their limited mobility and high risk of injury during the earthquake.
Work on the Gomal Zam Dam was stopped in 1965; not to restart till 2001 during the rule of Pervez Musharraf.
Workshops throughout the province support the manufacture of small arms and weapons.
Yahya Khan was replaced by Zulfikar Ali Bhutto as president; the country worked towards promulgating its constitution and putting the country on the road to democracy.
Yet, deforestation is happening at an alarming rate in Pakistan.
You need to carry tents and sleeping bags with you.
Yusufzai tribes rose against Mughals during the Yusufzai Revolt of 1667, and engaged in pitched-battles with Mughal battalions in Peshawar and Attock.
Zalzala Koh was an island which was around for only a few years.
Zhob District (Pashto: ږوب ولسوالۍ, Urdu: ضلع ژوب) is a district in the northwestern part of Balochistan province of Pakistan.
Zhob River (Pashto: ږوب سيند; Urdu: دریائے ژوب) flows in the Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa provinces of Pakistan.
Zia aligned with Deobandi institutions, exacerbating sectarian tensions with anti-Shia policies.
Zulfikar Ali Bhutto faced opposition under the banner of Nizam-e-Mustafa ("Rule of the Prophet"), advocating an Islamic state.
[Note 6] These pick up moisture while traveling from sea to land and cause orographic rain once they hit the highlands of the Indian Peninsula.
[a] The earliest explanation offered for the name comes from Ibn Battuta.
[a] The new districts were carved out of Mirpur Khas, Jacobabad, Larkana and Dadu Districts respectively.
[b] Government of India has assessed the pre-partition use in India (Punjab) at 1.821 cubic kilometres (1,476,000 acre⋅ft).
[b] Over the years, sand accumulated due to wind blown sediments from the alluvial plains and the coast.
[b] The Tarim sedimentary basin borders the range on the north and the Lesser Himalayas on the south.
[c] However, a clear divide is present between the northern and southern regions of the province; with northern Punjab being relatively more developed than southern Punjab.
[c] Later, tetradrachms would be minted depicting Alexander on horseback, armed with a sarissa and attacking a pair of Indians on an elephant.
[d] References to a land of five rivers are found in the Mahabharata, in which one of the regions is named as Panchanada (Sanskrit: पञ्चनद, romanised: pañca-nada, lit.
[k] They reside across Pakistan but are concentrated in Sindh, where they make up 8.81% of the population.
[note 1] Gilgit-Baltistan is six times larger than Azad Kashmir in terms of geographical area.
[note 1] The CPEC project will allow Chinese energy imports to circumvent these contentious areas.
[note 2] Ghulam Nabi Gilkar, under the assumed name "Mr. Anwar," issued a proclamation in the name of the provisional government in Muzaffarabad.
[page needed] Abu Ishaq Ibrahim was expelled from Ghazna and Shahi-Lawik strongholds were restored in Kabul and adjacent areas.
[page needed] He was described as a fearsome Shahi.
[page needed] This victory appears to have been commemorated in the Hund Slab Inscription (HSI).
al-Baladhuri adds that this stopped any more incursions until the reign of Uthman.
and declined rapidly 1,000 years later, following the Indo-Aryan migrations that overran the region in waves between 1500 and 500 B.C.
and during 2008–09 grew at 6% against the total GDP growth of Pakistan at 4%.
and equipped it with modern features (recreational facilities and watersports activities) at a cost of 650 million rupees.
and has the highest per capita of any province.
and to the borders of Kashgaria, Sogdia and Chach [Tashkent] and of that sea-coast Mazonshahr [Oman].
dumped on the glacier, that neither decomposes nor can be burned because of the extreme climatic conditions.
of Sibi, the line starting in exactly the opposite direction to that of the Bolān and entering the hills at Nari.
small, loosely-scattered patches of greenery).
that mean surface temperatures are rising and extreme weather events will increase over time.
which are used as traditional drug therapies.
with growing facilities and particular local geography Climbing, trekking and other similar sports are also getting popularity.
— Shapur I's inscription at the Ka'ba-ye Zartosht (262 CE), translation by Josef Wiesehöfer (1996).
Pakistan is located in South Asia.
The capital city of Pakistan is Islamabad.
Pakistan has four provinces: Punjab, Sindh, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and Balochistan.
Pakistan also has two autonomous territories: Azad Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan.
The largest city in Pakistan is Karachi.
The highest mountain in Pakistan is K2.
Pakistan shares borders with India, China, Afghanistan, and Iran.
The Indus River is the longest river in Pakistan.
Pakistan has a coastline along the Arabian Sea.
The total area of Pakistan is about 881,913 square kilometers.
The population of Pakistan is over 220 million.
The official languages of Pakistan are Urdu and English.
Punjabi is the most widely spoken language in Pakistan.
The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistani Rupee.
Pakistan has a diverse geography including mountains, plains, and deserts.
