" For the past 47 years, I have been struggling for the rights of Pakistan’s deprived and oppressed people, especially the Muhajir community.
": 84–86 India remained uninterested in such proposals and Prime Minister Nehru decided to push his country's role in the Non-Aligned Movement.
": part-3 Despite this warning, in November 1971, thousands of people led by conservative Pakistani politicians marched in Lahore and across Pakistan, calling for Pakistan to "crush India".
"Bandagi Nama" denounces slavery and attempts to explain the spirit behind the fine arts of enslaved societies.
"Corruption is a curse in India and amongst Muslims, especially the so-called educated and intelligentsia.
"If [India] conducts a nuclear test, it would force her [Pakistan] to ... follow suit", she said.
"If they don’t stop, the consequences will be … that the region will suffer with us equally.
"Musafir" is an account of one of Iqbal's journeys to Afghanistan, in which the Pashtun people are counselled to learn the "secret of Islam" and to "build up the self" within themselves.
"Musharraf pushed the country's economy 20 years back after imposing martial law in the country and ousting the democratic government".
"Nehru was now willing to offer virtually everything that Pakistan had been seeking since 1947".
"Our objective should be peace within and peace without.
"Such bilateral talks have not yielded any results for the last 40 years.
"That has very much disrupted their efforts in Afghanistan and has caused them to be less effective in terms of their ability to pull off an attack in Kabul," Anderson added.
"The CM was stupefied and most reluctant to leave the ground," Ramiz Raja recalled.
"The Pakistani media has covered the journey of 100 years in just 10 years, but their curiosity and thrust for revelation does not end and that is what drives the media".
"The Pakistani people have suffered greatly from terrorism and extremism.
"There were no Mujahideen, only taped wireless messages, which fooled no one.
"This case, along with the missing persons' case has established impartiality and credibility of the media in its fight against corruption".
"Under Shimla Accord it was decided that India and Pakistan would resolve their disputes bilaterally," Aziz said.
"We have been in office for more than six months.
"learned") and widely considered one of the most important and influential Muslim thinkers and Islamic religious philosophers of the 20th century.
"wherever there is a dispute in regard to any territory, the matter should be decided by a referendum or plebiscite of the people concerned.
'"Here-I-Am Movement of Pakistan"'; abbr.
'Day of Greatness') to commemorate the political services of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto who established the program.
'MARK3' mutation may leads to progressive Phthisis bulbi (shrinkage of the eyeball).
'Order of Lion Urdu نشان حیدر') is the highest and most prestigious honour awarded posthumously for bravery and actions of valor in event of war.
'Soldier Foundation') is a Pakistani conglomerate publicly traded on the Pakistan Stock Exchange (PSX).
'The Wise Man of the Ummah') and as Mufakkir-e-Pakistan (lit.
'Victory'), which was the codename of the Indian military operation in the region.
'change is coming'), mobilized people in rallies over public distress on various national issues, the most notable of which was the 2014 Azadi march.
(1) There shall be [three hundred and thirty-six] seats for members in the National Assembly, including seats reserved for women and non-Muslims.
(1) There shall be a Cabinet of Ministers, with the Prime Minister at its head, to aid and advise the President in the exercise of his functions.
(2) Election to fill seats in the Senate allocated to each Province shall be held in accordance with the system of proportional representation by means of the single transferable vote.
(2) The National Assembly shall meet on the twenty-first day following the day on which a general election to the Assembly is held unless sooner summoned by the President.
(3) Now withstanding anything contained in clause (1) or clause (2), the President shall appoint the most senior Judge of the Supreme Court as the Chief Justice of Pakistan.
(88% in Baramulla, 87% in Srinagar, 73% in Anantnag and 55% in Badgam).
(Primarily Deobandi background according to another source—author John R. Schmidt).
(c) three members from the Federal Government to be nominated by the Prime Minister from time to time.
(f) The whole of Pakistan will come under the control of the Armed Forces of Pakistan.
(honours) degree in political science in 1950.
), had kept Osama bin Laden in an Intelligence Bureau safe house in Abbottabad.
), where the League won no seats despite the fact that almost all residents were Muslim.
... After six or seven years, my prophecies came true, word by word.
... Civil Service is the backbone of the State.
... you are now a sovereign legislative body and you have got all the powers.
1,000, including benefits for skilled workers invalid after five years of insurable employment.
1.8 billion to the National Logistics Corporation through speculative investments between 2004 and 2008.
1.98 billion in damages to government and military facilities.
10,761 million to Pakistan's GDP, generating Rs.
13 days after the invasion of East Pakistan, 93,000 Pakistani military personnel surrendered to the Indian Army and the Mukti Bahini.
14 Squadron "Tail Choppers" was destroyed and its CO, Squadron Leader PQ Mehdi, was taken POW, putting Pakistan's air command in Dhaka out of commission.
14 of 1985), seven seats were added to the general seats and ten to the reserved seats for women in the National Assembly.
15 other organizations like the Committee to Protect Journalists condemned the same.
168 Pakistani soldiers have been martyred whilst partaking in peacekeeping missions.
17 Swiss bank accounts owned by the Zardari-Bhutto family were frozen by the country's government.
175 Candidates from across Punjab contested in these by-elections.
18 Grenadiers was placed under 192 Mountain brigade commanded by Brig.
1970) which caused radical changes in West Pakistan.
1984 saw a pronounced rise in terrorist violence in Kashmir.
19th Amendment became part of the Constitution after the assent of President Asif Ali Zardari on 1 January 2011.
19th Amendment was passed by the National Assembly on 22 December 2010 and Senate on 30 December 2010 respectively.
2 Rajputana Rifles of Lt. Col. Ravindranath was tasked to recapture it on 28 June.
2 clearly states that if someone approaches the legal authorities with a rape complaint, she cannot be punished in case she is unable to present four witnesses.
2, 2001), the president converted the orders of suspension of legislative bodies and their presiding officers, into dissolution.
2000, which required judges to take a fresh oath of office.
2002 was issued by Musharraf in August 2001, which established the constitutional basis for his continuance in office.
2002, which added numerous amendments to the Constitution.
2011 was rated by the BBC as a "disastrous year" for Pakistan-U.S. relations, primarily due to three events: the Raymond Allen Davis incident, the death of Osama bin Laden and the Salala incident.
2014 India–Pakistan floods was also followed by statements of cooperation by leaders of both countries.
2018 Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act (TPPR Act) provides transgender people with recognition.
20th Amendment was passed unanimously by National Assembly and Senate on 20 February 2012.
21-year-old made history when she was invited to play in Germany for top clubs SGS Essen, FSV Gütersloh and VfL Sindelfingen.
24 million are paid out per month by the ISI to fund its activities in Jammu and Kashmir.
25(2) states "There shall be no discrimination on the basis of sex") but also recognizes as valid Sharia law (Chapter 3A.
26 March 1971 is considered the official Independence Day of Bangladesh, and the name Bangladesh was in effect henceforth.
3,131 Polling Stations were created in 20 Constituencies out of which 731 were for men, 700 for women, and 1700 were combined polling stations.
30, 31, 32 and 33 TDU (presumably to deceive the Indian military planners as to their actual tank strength), each consisting of two tank squadrons and one M-36B Jackson tank destroyer squadron.
3rd Jat battalion was the first Indian unit to cross the Icchogil canal and capture it alongside Dograi.
558,907.00 ($5,333.85) with additional allowances of ₨.
6 and 7 Para SF attacked point 4700 but had to suspend their operations on 12 July when the ceasefire came into effect.
63% of people had heard of rape and 13% of the people had witnessed a rape.
67% of urban Indians want New Delhi to be in full control of Kashmir.
690 million in after-tax profits and creating 40,465 jobs.
7 September 2001 London law firm Richard Rooney and Co told MF-BVI (Mossack Fonseca British Virgin Islands) to create Petroline International Inc in the British Virgin Islands.
7,000 million in 1971–72 to more than Rs.
70 Russians and 130 Pakistanis took part in the exercise, held from 24 September to 10 October 2016, in Cherat, in Pakistan's north-western Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province.
724 million on the civilian Karachi Nuclear Power Plant and related education of engineers and scientists.
75 per month after retirement at 55 for men and 50 for women with 15 years of insurable employment.
750 million (US$2.6 million), with other assets including furniture worth Rs.
80 tanks, the first batch of T-59s, a low-grade version of the Russian T-54/55 series were delivered to Pakistan in 1965–66.
90 out of 370 border outposts fell to Bengali forces.
: 103–127 The Pakistani attacked the Skardu on 10 February 1948 which was repulsed by the Indian soldiers.
: 107 By the end of the war, India had lost 45–65 aircraft while Pakistan lost 75.
: 107 Sporadic raids by the IAF continued against PAF forward air bases in Pakistan until the end of the war, and interdiction and close-support operations were maintained.
: 107 The PAF, which was solely focused on air combat, was blown out of the subcontinent's skies within the first week of the war.
: 107 Those PAF aircraft that survived took refuge at Iranian air bases or in concrete bunkers, refusing to offer a fight.
: 10–25 It is possible that, through recusals or vacancies, the Court divides evenly on a case, as such happened on the case Nusrat Bhutto v. Federation of Pakistan (1977–78).
: 110 Zulfikar Ali Bhutto endorsed the veto,: 110 and subsequently refused to yield the premiership of Pakistan to Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.
: 111 It is claimed by authors that Prime Minister Sharif had well political intelligence on Musharraf's intention and had sought US President Bill Clinton's help against the military intervention.
: 112 In East Pakistan, the unified Eastern Military Command under Lt-Gen. A.A.K.
: 112 In addition to these three countries, an unidentified Middle Eastern ally also supplied Pakistan with Mirage IIIs.
: 114–119 In 1970, the Pakistan army's military mission in Jordan was reportedly involved in tackling and curbing down the Palestinian infiltration in Jordan.
: 115 The rebellion in Poonch possibly unnerved the Maharaja.
: 145 In 1976, the first Chairman joint chiefs was appointed from the army with Gen. Muhammad Shariff taking over the chairmanship, but resigned a year later.
: 145 In 2002, The Supreme Court supervised the general elections successfully oversaw the transition of power from the office of Chief Executive to Prime minister.
: 151 : 319 : 319 Over the issue of Baloch conflict, the Pakistani military remained engage in Omani civil war in favor of Omani government until the rebels were defeated in 1979.
: 155–156 In total, the size of the new army was about ~150,000 men strong.
: 156 In the meantime, the Indian Navy effectively blockaded East Pakistan.
: 156 Lieutenant General Jagjit Singh Aurora, the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Indian Army's Eastern Command, led the full Indian thrust into East Pakistan.
: 159–160 The working-classes quickly flocked to the new party, believing it to be a party dedicated to the destruction of capitalism in the country.
: 163 Those who are turned away are strongly encourage to join the Marines Corps or the Air Force.
: 167–168 : 73–74 Details emerged in successive years of this pardon that resulted in a forced signing of an agreement that put him in exile for a decade.
: 1915 The Supreme Court, however, did take the petitions to review the case of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, after his counsels filed an appeal against the verdict of Lahore High Court.
: 19–20 During Bhutto's administration, Pakistan's military pursued a policy of greater self-reliance in arms production.
: 1–2 The Museum's collections include fine arts, oral histories, photographs, personal belongings of judges and chief justices and an archival collection of rare documents.
: 2 These collections are displayed in the permanent exhibit gallery of the Museum, as well as in temporary exhibits; surely in future these archival materials will be assets to the researchers.
: 220 The honour is a namesake of Ali and the recipients receiving this honorary title as a sign of respect: Shaheed meaning martyr.
: 23–24 The resulting flood of impoverished East Pakistani refugees strained India's already overburdened economy.
: 25 : 118 Meanwhile, Sharif was tried by the military judge advocate general where allegations of corruption, terrorism, and money laundering were leveled against him.
: 261 In 2010, the Pakistan Army was awarded with a gold medal at the Exercise Cambrian Patrol held in Wales in the United Kingdom.
: 27 The military interference in civic matters grew further when the martial law was extended for an infinite period despite maintaining that the elections to be held in 90-days prior.
: 281–282 Nixon encouraged Iran to send military supplies to Pakistan.
: 292 Center point of the uppermost chevron must remain 10 cm from the point of the shoulder.
: 292 Pay scales and incentives are greater and attractive upon enlistment including the allocation of land, free housing, and financial aid to attend the colleges and universities.
: 292 The Company/battalion appointments wear the appointments badges on the right wrist.
: 294 Retirement age for the enlisted personnel varies and depends on the enlisted ranks that they have attained during their services.
: 2–3 Members of the Supreme Court Bar Association are also granted access to the Supreme Court Library's research collection and law periodicals.
: 308–324 They also repelled a counterattack aimed at Teetwal.
: 30–31 At the request from the Saudi monarchy, the Zia administration deployed the company of the special forces to end seizure of the Grand Mosque in Mecca from Islamists.
: 31 In Punjab and Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa where the recruitment is popular, the height requirement remains to be at 5 feet 6 inches with minimum education of 10th grade.
: 32 From 1967 to 1969, a series of major military exercises was conducted by infantry units on East Pakistan's border with India.
: 35 Eventually, the Indian invasion of Pakistan came to halt when the Indian Army concluded the battle near Burki.
: 350 The legalisation of Contempt of court act further strengthened the judicial independence of the Supreme Court in 2004 when Shaukat Aziz became prime minister.
: 36 Dependence on the United States grew furthermore by the Pakistan Army despite it had worrisome concerns to the country's politicians.
: 36 During this time, an army combat brigade team was readily made available by Gen. Ayub Khan to deploy to support the American Army's fighting troops in the Korean war.
: 365 The Constitution Bench formed under Chief Justice Sh.
: 40 Sporadic fighting between militia and Indian Army broke out, and units of the Pakistan Army under Maj-Gen. Akbar Khan, eventually joined the militia in their fight against the Indian Army.
: 45–46 Prime Minister Sharif reacted angrily to the Court's actions, by issuing an intemperate public diatribe particularly against Chief Justice Shah.
: 49–50 To India, this meant an end to the UN or other multilateral negotiations.
: 55 In 1948, the British army officers in the Pakistan Army established and raised the 10th, 12th, and the 14th infantry divisions— with the 14th being established in East Bengal.
: 55 In 1950, the 15th Infantry Division was raised with the help from the United States Army, followed by the establishment of the 15th Lancers in Sialkot.
: 56–57 Eventually, the military court's inconclusive rulings found him to be guilty and convicted him for risking the life of all the passengers on board including the sitting Chairman joint chiefs.
: 58 In 2006, Sharif joins hand with Benazir Bhutto in opposition to Musharraf when both signed an agreement to restore parliamentary democracy in the country.
: 58 Major agitations took place in 2005 against President Musharraf's anti-terrorism policy and controversial amendments made in the constitution.
: 59 In the views of Chief Justice Rahman, the martial law was invalid and notably ruled that Yahya Khan's assumption of power was "illegal usurpation".
: 59–60 In light of the Supreme Court's judgement, the army held the publicly televised conference when President Yahya Khan announced to hold the nationwide general elections in 1969–70.
: 61 By 1979, the Supreme Court greatly divided with Justice Dorab Patel, Justice G.S.
: 61 Several sources indicate that the plans were finalised on 12 September by the Prime Minister Liaquat Ali Khan, based on proposals prepared by Colonel Akbar Khan and Sardar Shaukat Hayat Khan.
: 62–100 Major investments were directed towards modernising the navy.
: 67 Under the Chief Justice Muh'd Shahabuddin, the Supreme Court had the conservative leanings in regards to the constitutionalism and their judgements in the cases of important issues.
: 67–68 Chief Justice Shahabuddin plays a crucial role in drafting the second set of the Constitution of Pakistan which incorporated the liberal ideas with the important Islamic provisions.
: 68 The Governors play a similar role, at the provincial level, as the President does at the federal level.
: 686–687 The League's election success caused many West Pakistanis to fear that it would allow the Bengalis to draft the constitution based on the Six Points and liberalism.
: 6–7 During the time of the orality by either sides of the parties, the justices may interrupt the advocate and ask questions.
: 7 Despite the left-wing government of Sirimavo Bandaranaike following a neutral non-aligned foreign policy, Sri Lanka decided to help Pakistan in the war.
: 7 The petitioner gives the first presentation, and may reserve some time to rebut the respondent's arguments after the respondent has concluded.
: 70 Each provincial assembly elects a Chief Minister, who then selects a cabinet of ministers from amongst the members of the Provincial Assembly.
: 80 : 57 In the wake of changing geopolitical realities, India sought to establish closer relations with regional countries such as Iran, which was a traditional ally of Pakistan.
: 80 Each province also has a High Court, which forms part of the superior judiciary.
: 802 Faced with insurmountable losses, the Pakistani military capitulated in less than a fortnight and psychological panic spread in the Eastern Command's military leadership.
: 802 Subsequently, the Indian Army encircled Dacca and issued an ultimatum to surrender in "30-minutes" time window on 16 December 1971.
: 81 The subsequent change of command resulted in Gen. Musa Khan becoming the army commander with Ayub Khan promoting himself as controversial rank of field marshal.
: 82–83 From 4 December onwards, the aircraft carrier INS Vikrant was deployed, and its Sea Hawk fighter-bombers attacked many coastal towns in East Pakistan, including Chittagong and Cox's Bazar.
: 85–87 Seeking to retaliate, the Pakistan Navy submarines hunted for the major Indian warships.
: 94–95 Over the several successive years, the work of the Court increased and cases began to accumulate, leading the Supreme Court requesting the Parliament to increase the number of judges.
: xxx However, Justice Shah's judicial leanings did not protected the Benazir' administration when it was dismissed by President Farooq Leghari over allegations on corruption.
: xxxv The standard rifle for the army is the German designed and POF manufactured Koch G3P4.
; whereas the increase educational qualification by 14 to 16 years.
A 2008 report by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees determined that Indian Administered Kashmir was only 'partly free'.
A 2008 ruling at Pakistan's Lahore High Court gave permission to Naureen, 28, to have a sex change operation, although the decision was applicable only towards people suffering from gender dysphoria.
A 2014 Pew Research Center opinion poll found that 27% of Bangladeshis were wary of India.
A 2014 report says about 1,000 Christian and Hindu women in Pakistan are forcibly converted to Islam every year.
A 2017 World Meteorological Organization panel considers it the deadliest tropical cyclone since at least 1873.
A 2021 Ipsos Pakistan survey found 55% of respondents said Imran Khan government was worse than they expected.
A 2025 IMF report identifies the judiciary as one of the critical bottlenecks behind corruption.
A California court ruled Khan to be the father of her daughter Tyrian Jade, though he denied paternity.
A Commonwealth citizen was defined in this Act to have the same meaning.
A District Government or a City District Government and Zillah Council form the governing body, with the District Coordination Officer serving as the administrative head.
A February 2023 Gallup Pakistan survey, conducted after the end of his premiership, found that 61% of Pakistanis held a good opinion of him.
A Muslim's fate is in the hands of God Almighty.
A NATO spokesman also said that NATO "regrets the loss of life of any Pakistani servicemen".
A National Security Council meeting was called by the Pakistan Army which declared the allegations were based on lies and misconception without specifically naming Sharif.
A PEW opinion poll found that 84% of Pakistanis favoured making sharia the law of the land.
A PILDAT survey claimed that the quality of governance had improved, though it was still weak for transparency.
A PTI official said he was allowed to vote by postal ballot from prison.
A Pakistan International Airlines flight was sent to fetch Bhutto from New York City, where he was presenting Pakistan's case before the United Nations Security Council on the East Pakistan Crisis.
A Pakistan Press Foundation report said that he, without providing evidence, referred to journalists as "mafias" and "blackmailers".
A Pakistani Army Auster AOP was shot down on 16 December, killing one Pakistani army captain; on 2 February 1967, an AOP was shot down by IAF Hawker Hunters.
A Pakistani Urdu poet Faiz Ahmad Faiz was awarded the Lenin Peace Prize, a Soviet equivalent of Nobel Peace Prize.
A Pathan of Punjab, Khan was commissioned into the British Indian Army in 1939 and fought in the Second World War in the Mediterranean theatre.
A Protocol for the establishment of diplomatic relations between Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan was signed on 10 May 1992.
A Swiss court ordered her to turn over $11.9 million to the Pakistani state and to serve 180 days in prison.
A U.S. Military Assistance Advisory Group (MAAG) was also established in Rawalpindi, then capital of Pakistan.
A Union Council is the basic tier of local government in Pakistan.
A United Nations vote cast on 25 April 2003 on issues of LGBTQ human rights was derailed at the last minute by an alliance of five disapproving Muslim countries, including Pakistan.
A battalion of state troops was dispatched, which cleared the roads and dispersed the militias.
A bilateral summit was held at Simla as a follow-up to the war, where India pushed for peace in South Asia.
A boundary commission would determine the final lines in the partitioned provinces.
A brief, but furious 1965 war with India began with a covert Pakistani thrust across the Kashmiri cease-fire line and ended up with the city of Lahore threatened with encirclement by the Indian Army.
A candidate can appear for a maximum of three attempts.
A caretaker government under the control of former PPP member Ghulam Mustafa Jatoi was sworn in, with Khan declaring a state of national emergency.
A ceasefire was declared on 1 January the following year.
A chapter on women in development was included for the first time in the Sixth Plan.
A charge sheet had been drafted and was to be presented to parliament.
A charge-sheet had been drafted and was to be presented to parliament.
A close identity of views and mutual interests remain the centre-point of bilateral ties.
A collection of his Punjabi poetry was put on display in 2016 at the Iqbal Manzil in Sialkot.
A common system in place with marriage is the Dowry system in which a low or no status is assigned to a girl right from the prenatal stage.
A company of three guards with 954 heavy mortar battery ordered to reinforce the RAC post at Munabao could never reach.
A constant replenishment of Pashtun tribes were organised, and provided arms and ammunition as well as military leadership.
A constitutional commission was set-up under the Supreme Court to implement the work on the constitution that was led by Chief Justice Muhammad Shahabuddin and Supreme Court justices.
A cornerstone of the success of China's Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) is the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).
A counter coup was initiated and the senior commanders of the military leadership ousted Sharif's government and took over the airport.
A court ruled he was ineligible due to an old conviction, amid a government appeal in the Supreme Court, which was slated to hear the case on 30 June, thus postponing the vote in the constituency.
A crackdown on the conservative Pakistan Muslim League followed, initiated by Bhutto's government.
A crackdown was also initiated on vocal women supporters of PTI - the most prominent of which was Khadija Shah, a businesswoman and granddaughter of former Pakistani Army Chief, Asif Nawaz Janjua.
A deadline of Nov.1 was announced for people to leave or face forcible expulsion.
A director-general, who is traditionally a serving lieutenant general in the Pakistan Army, heads the ISI.
A discussion over the Durrand Line between the-then Taliban leader Mohammed Omar and Naseerullah Babar ended abruptly.
A district (Urdu: ضلع‬, zillah) is the first tier of local government.
A documentary film was prepared on Factory fire named Discount workers in 2020.
A faction of the party's leadership grew disenchanted with Abdullah's leanings towards Nehru and the Congress, and his secularisation of Kashmiri politics.
A faction supporting the creation of Pakistan parted ways in 1945 to support the All Indian Muslim League.
A famous debate was held between Iqbal and Hussain Ahmad Madani on the question of nationalism in the late 1930s.
A fellow student said she "cried most of her first semester", although Bhutto later called her time at Harvard "four of the happiest years of my life".
A few months after the summit, Musharraf presided over a brief standoff with India caused by the 2001 Indian Parliament attack, which India blamed on Pakistan.
A final meeting took place in 1995, which Musharraf also joined.
A firing incident occurred near Torkham border crossing resulted in closure of the border.
A formal ceasefire was declared effective 1 January 1949.
A four-member bench unanimously found he had misled officials about Toshakhana gifts and ordered criminal proceedings under the Election Act, 2017.
A further feature of the judicial system is the office of Mohtasib (Ombudsman), which is provided for in the constitution.
A giant national flag, weighing 15 kg was hoisted at the Kargil war memorial on Kargil Vijay Diwas to commemorate the 13th anniversary of India's victory in the war.
A great amount of Pakistani ammunition was captured from Barki which helped Indian forces after the battle.
A greater problem can be vigilante policing and killings by Islamist and terrorist groups.
A guerrilla insurgency was initiated by the Indian-organised and supported Mukti Bahini ("freedom fighters").
A high court is the principal court of its province.
A judge of the Supreme Court can be removed under the Constitution only on grounds of proven misconduct or incapacity and by an order of the President of Pakistan.
A judge who has retired as a justice of the Supreme Court is debarred from practising in any court of law or before any other authority in Pakistan.
A key campaign argument of US President Barack Obama was that the US had made the mistake of "putting all our eggs in one basket" in the form of General Musharraf.
A large section of the intellectual community of Bangladesh were murdered, mostly by the Al-Shams and Al-Badr forces, at the instruction of the Pakistani Army.
A leading figure in the Pakistan Movement, he is revered as Quaid-e-Millat ("Leader of the Nation") and Shaheed-e-Millat ("Martyr of the Nation").
A long history of secret deals between their two armies—overrides the problems with Islamic extremism.
A major clash between Indian security forces and militants occurred when a group of insurgents tried to infiltrate into Kashmir from Pakistan in July 2005.
A major overseas newspaper and an Urdu daily published in Bhopal, India, saw a US hand behind the assassination.
A major programme of expansion saw new stations open at Karachi and Rawalpindi in 1948, and a new broadcasting house at Karachi in 1950.
A major tank battle took place in Chawinda, at which the newly established 1st Armoured Division was able to halt the Indian invasion.
A majority of the participants reported that they, or someone in their household, have been subjected to an act of corruption while interacting with someone from the judiciary.
A majority of the victims of honour killings are women and the punishments meted out to the murderers are very lenient.
A majority of women are married to their close relatives, i.e., first and second cousins.
A male madrassa was only a few minutes drive away.
A man standing within two to three metres of the car fired three gunshots at her and detonated a suicide vest packed with ball bearings.
A matter can be remitted to a standing committee by the Speaker or the Assembly suo moto and without moving any motion.
A membership drive in November and December 2008 resulted in 150,000 people joining the party.
A message was conveyed, and Rahman decided to meet Bhutto.
A minority of Muslims, though, withdrew from the League, choosing to welcome the Simon Commission and repudiating Jinnah.
A month later Nehru adopted a more conciliatory attitude, telling a press conference that the Assembly's actions would not affect India's plebiscite commitment.
A multi-party system is in effect, with the National Assembly consisting of 342 seats and the Senate consisting of 100 seats (after ex-FATA merger) elected from the four provinces.
A new labor policy was announced increasing the power of trade unions.
A new labor policy was announced with more workers' rights and the power of trade unions.
A nine-member panel of Supreme Court judges deliberated on six petitions (including Jamaat-e-Islami's, Pakistan's largest Islamic group) for disqualification of Musharraf as a presidential candidate.
A no-confidence motion was tabled against PM Imran Khan on 28 March 2022.
A number of Indian soldiers earned awards for gallantry.
A number of channels have been shut down in the past with the latest such incident involving Geo TV and other channels in the Geo TV network after a Fatwa was issued against it.
A number of constitutional amendments were made to make the country a parliamentary democracy.
A number of privatisation of industries such as gas, water supply and sanitation, and electricity general, were natural monopolies for which the privatisation involved little competition.
A number of social reforms were carried out, such as the establishment of new literacy centres, new pension rights, and the abolition of admission and bed fees forced upon during the Zia regime.
A person living openly as LGBTQ is likely to be at risk of treatment from non-state actors such as Islamist organizations and terrorist groups.
A person must keep his characteristics intact, he asserts, but once this is achieved, he should sacrifice his ambitions for the needs of the nation.
A person with connections both to directly governed portions of British India and one of the princely states could be a British subject and British protected person simultaneously.
A petition to challenge the Act was filed in 2020 with the Federal Shariat Court of Pakistan.
A plebiscite was unnecessary and states should accede according to their majority population.
A poem "Pushp Kii Abhilasha" (Wish of a Flower) by Makhanlal Chaturvedi, a renowned 20th century neo-romantic Hindi poet, is inscribed on the gateway of the memorial greeting visitors.
A politician, Ahmed Raza Kasuri, claimed he was the target of the attack orchestrated by Bhutto.
A poll by an Indian newspaper shows 48% of Pakistanis want Islamabad "to take full control" of Kashmir, while 47% of Pakistanis support Kashmiri independence.
A poll conducted a day after his resignation showed that 63% of Pakistanis welcomed Musharraf's decision to step down while only 15% were unhappy with it.
A populist constitutional movement eventually resulted in Musharraf's departure.
A populist intellectual movement leading to the departure of Pervez Musharraf allowed Asif Zardari to become president.
A previous report by RSF in 2010 named Pakistan as one of "ten countries where it is not good to be a journalist".
A principled approach limits their ability to operate when the government emphasizes political and security considerations.
A pro-Taliban media outlet, Hurriyet Daily News, claimed that the strikes killed 19 Pakistani troops and three Afghan civilians.
A proposal for an independent United Bengal was mooted by Prime Minister Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy in 1946 but opposed by the colonial authorities.
A quick trial was held in the Supreme Court which gave Sharif a life sentence, with his assets being frozen based on a corruption scandal.
A recent report by Amnesty International stated that up to 20,000 people have been detained under a law called AFSPA in Indian-administered Kashmir.
A reception by the Canadian trade commissioner that evening in honour of Canada's Dominion Day was the last public event he attended.
A relative of Rizvi filed a petition before the Lahore High Court in September 2021, asking that the court declare the government's extension of his detention illegal and order his release.
A report from the Indian Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) claimed that the seven people killed in 2000 by the Indian military, were innocent civilians.
A research group under India's Ministry of Defence confirmed the same.
A resolution to impeach the president has to be passed by the two-thirds majority.
A review board of the Lahore High Court rejected extending Saad's detention on 8 July, stating the government had no evidence to keep him in custody.
A road between Kargil and Skardu exists, which was closed in 1949.
A rumour spread that in one incident, Murtaza invited Zardari to his house, only to have him pinned down by bodyguards and half his mustache forcibly shaved off.
A scheme for workers' participation in management was introduced, ensuring 20% participation at the factory level.
A second relief column reached Kotli, and evacuated the garrisons of that town and others but were forced to abandon it being too weak to defend it.
A section of Coney Island Avenue in Brooklyn, New York was also named 'Muhammad Ali Jinnah Way' in honour of the founder of Pakistan.
A senior PML-N leader said "95% of the members of the PML(N) were against becoming part of the lawyers' movement, but after the [Supreme Court] verdict, the PML(N) had no other choice".
A senior Pakistani Foreign Ministry official acknowledged operational missteps but denied large-scale deportations of US-affiliated Afghans.
A senior Pakistani Foreign Ministry official acknowledged some "missteps at the operational level" but denied large-scale deportations of US-affiliated Afghans.
A senior air force official also stated that they had been asked by the Indian government to be ready to fly out another similar consignment.
A separate federation of Muslim Provinces, reformed on the lines I have suggested above, is the only course by which we can secure a peaceful India and save Muslims from the domination of Non-Muslims.
A session of the National Assembly is summoned by the President under Article 54(1) of the Constitution.
A session of the Punjab Assembly was held on 16 April 2022, in which the opposition candidate Hamza Shahbaz was elected the new Chief Minister but he was not able to take the oath of office.
A settlement was reached to end the fighting, while Nehru also referred the issue to the United Nations.
A significant move occurred on 1 January 1974, when Bhutto nationalised all banks.
A similar commission during Benazir Bhutto's administration had also recommended amending certain aspects of Hudood Ordinance.
A similar pledge was made by the Government of India when the Kashmir dispute was referred to the UN Security Council on 1 January 1948.
A single protest was held by Sardar Mohsin Abbasi in front of the Supreme Court on 17 October on the first hearing of Nawaz.
A special Afghanistan section known as the SS Directorate was created under the command of Brigadier Mohammed Yousaf to oversee day-to-day operations in Afghanistan.
A special court ordered that he remain in jail in the cypher case, in which he was accused of leaking state secrets and violating the Official Secrets Act.
A spokesman for Sharif said that Indian media had twisted his statement to make it seem like he had suggested that the state of Pakistan endorsed and was directly involved in the attacks.
A spokesperson for Musharraf's party said the ruling was "biased" and they would appeal the decision.
A spokesperson for her father denied rumours that Jemima was pregnant.
A statement released by eleven political leaders in East Pakistan ten days after the cyclone hit charged the government with "gross neglect, callous and utter indifference".
A street in Heidelberg has been named in his memory, "Iqbal Ufer".
A study published in 2000 recorded that the divorce rate in Pakistan was extremely low due to the social stigma attached to it.
A subsequent military coup in Pakistan that overturned the democratically elected Nawaz Sharif government in October of the same year also proved a setback to relations.
A successful intervention by the USSR led to the signing of the Tashkent Agreement between India and Pakistan in 1965.
A survey done in 2009 showed that male and transgender sex workers in Pakistan were at high risk of HIV/AIDS mostly as they had sex with IDU clients.
A sustained anti-regime mass movement began in the fall of 1968 in West Pakistan.
A telegram containing the text of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's declaration reached some students in Chittagong.
A third consignment of medicine and relief material was also sent shortly afterwards by train.
A top ranking Muslim League leader, Khaliquzzaman, declared that Pakistan would bring together all Muslim countries into Islamistan – a pan-Islamic entity.
A top-ranking Muslim League leader, Khaliquzzaman, declared that Pakistan would bring together all Muslim countries into Islamistan – a pan-Islamic entity.
A tradition of appointment based on favoritism and qualification that is still in practice by the civilian Prime Ministers in Pakistan.
A truce was achieved on 19 October but the peace talks held in Istanbul a week later initially fell apart with both sides trading blame.
A two-day conference on Gilgit-Baltistan was held on 8–9 April 2008 at the European Parliament in Brussels under the auspices of the International Kashmir Alliance.
A two-judge panel found there was no evidence to prove the prosecution case that Maryam Nawaz abetted any corruption in buying high-end apartments in London.
A two-part process was proposed for the withdrawal of forces.
A unit of East Pakistan Rifles refused to obey commands to fire on the Bengali demonstrators, beginning a mutiny among the Bengali soldiers.
A version was published in India as Illusion of Victory: A Military History of the Indo-Pak War-1965 by Lexicon Publishers.
A video showed him saying, "What a time I have come...so much excitement," which coincided with the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
A widening corruption inquiry culminated in a 2003 conviction in a Swiss court.
A written apology was presented to Alishah at his residence and later, his party issued a white paper in Parliament formally apologising for their wrongdoing.
A written reference has to be sent to the Supreme Judicial Council that will conduct the hearings of allegations of misconduct that would determine the removal of judge.
A year after elections, on 11 May 2014, PTI alleged that the 2013 general elections were rigged in favour of the ruling PML (N).
A year later on 8 September 1951, he married a woman of Iranian Kurdish origin—Nusrat Ispahani, popularly known as Begum Nusrat Bhutto.
A. Hobson and R. H. Tawney, alongside the Fabian Society.
A. K. Niazi commented on Tikka's actions: "On the night between 25/26 March 1971, General Tikka struck.
A. K. Niazi on 16 December, since the commander of forces in Shiromoni, Brig Hayat Khan insisted on continuing the battle.
A. Rahim, and published on 9 December 1967.
A.G. Noorani blames many Indian and Pakistani leaders for the misery of Kashmiri people but says that Nehru was the main culprit.
ANP has also attempted to distance itself from PTM, terminating party membership for anyone associated with PTM, with its president Aimal Wali Khan calling for a boycott of PTM.
ANP was the largest Pashtun nationalist party in Pakistan between 2008−2013 with influence lying in the Pashtun dominated areas in and around Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa.
APMSO gave birth to the Muhajir Qaumi Movement in 1984.
AT the same time, ideological differences emerged within the NAP, which led to a major split between the pro-Russian and pro-Chinese factions.
Abbas and written by Ali Sardar Jafri was released in 1978.
Abbottabad's district and sessions judge in a missing person's case passed judgment asking the authorities to declare Pervez Musharraf a proclaimed offender.
Abductions, bombings, and murders became increasingly common in Karachi.
Abdul Kalam Road), near Birla House where Mahatma Gandhi stayed and Jinnah was neighbours with the wealthiest man in Delhi at the time, Sir Sobha Singh.
Abdul Wali Khan's political career had been built on the tradition of intense Pashtun nationalism inherited from his father, Abdul Ghaffar Khan (Bacha Khan).
Abdullah prohibited his entry and promptly arrested him when he attempted.
Abdullah would act as the mediator between India and Pakistan.
Abdus Salam and Munir Khan jointly collaborated to expand the nuclear power infrastructure, receiving tremendous support from Bhutto.
About 10% of the seats in the National Assembly and 5% in the provincial assemblies were reserved for women, with no restriction on contesting general seats.
About 30,000 Afghan students from JUI-controlled madrassas (both JUI (F) and JUI-S) in Pakistan joined the Taliban movement in Afghanistan.
About 30,000 infiltrators are estimated to have been dispatched in August 1965 as part of the 'Operation Gibraltar'.
About 4,000 women have served the armed forces till 2017.
About half of the aid package was disbursed during the Bush administration and other half during the Obama administration.
About him Abdul Ghaffar Khan wrote: ""According to my instructions the mass movement was launched.
About national languages, Urdu was declared as national languages, and English as official language; all other languages were preserved by the Constitution.
Above all, she could use the media effectively.
Access to education for girls has improved in recent years, but challenges remain in rural areas.
Accession could only be contemplated afterwards.
According one news article, the Supreme Court applied its judgement retroactively, having effect from 3 November 2007.
According to "The Story of Pakistan," at many places, particularly where the PNA candidates were strong, the polling was alleged to have been blocked for hours.
According to 1998 figures, the female infant mortality rate was higher than that of male children.
According to Ahmed, some books published about Jinnah outside Pakistan mention that he consumed alcohol, but this is omitted from books published inside Pakistan.
According to Akbar Ahmed, Jinnah became a firm Sunni Muslim by the end of his life.
According to Akbar S. Ahmed, it is not widely read outside the country and usually avoids even the slightest criticism of Jinnah.
According to Akbar S. Ahmed, this began to change during Iqbal's final years prior to his death in 1938.
According to Allen, she would have been aware that a divorce or a public separation would have resulted in the end of her political career in Pakistan due to social stigma around the subject.
According to American Intelligence officials, ISI is still providing protection and help to LeT.
According to Article 50 of the Constitution, the National Assembly, the Senate and the President together make up a body known as the Majlis-e-Shoora (Council of Advisers).
According to BBC News, the move to hang Qadri was an indication of the government's growing confidence in taming the street power of religious groups.
According to BBC, he was criticised for using a helicopter to commute while promoting austerity.
According to Barkha Dutt during the 2015 SAARC Summit, Nawaz and Modi held a secret meeting.
According to Benazir Bhutto, Bhutto demanded control of the territory in the first stage of the Agreement, surprising and shocking the Indian delegation.
According to Causar Nyäzie, the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission officials had misled Bhutto, and he embarked on a long journey to try to obtain a nuclear fuel reprocessing plant from France.
According to China's custom statistics the bilateral trade volume for the calendar year 2017 crossed the US$20 billion mark for the first time.
According to Commander-in-Chief of the Pakistan Army General Muhammad Musa, about 135 commandos were airdropped at three Indian airfields (Halwara, Pathankot and Adampur).
According to Dawn, his remarks followed her repeated tirades against him and Bushra Bibi.
According to Dawn, there is no direct evidence to substantiate that Faiz had an "influence on the PTI and its political machinations".
According to Deutsche Welle, during the meeting Nawaz argued for more German investment, particularly in the energy sector, but Merkel expressed wariness over the security situation in Pakistan.
According to Embark President David B. Wheeler, the speaking fee for Musharraf would be US$150,000–200,000 for a day plus jet and other V.I.P.
According to General Ved Malik, the bulk of the infiltration occurred in April.
According to Ghazi Salahuddin of The News International, controversy ensued after the October meeting and the Dawn report, which lingered until May 2016.
According to Hector Bolitho, Jinnah was also inspired by British liberalism, particularly the nineteenth century reform movements by activists such as J.
According to Indian media reports, Pakistan has provided weapons to Ukraine despite Russian protests, a claim denied by Pakistan's foreign ministry.
According to Indian military sources, the Pakistani Army prepared a plan called Operation Gulmarg and put it into action as early as 20 August, a few days after Pakistan's independence.
According to Indian news, unnamed sources have stated that Hashim Musa, a former para commando in the Pakistan Army's elite Special Service Group (SSG), was involved in the attack.
According to Indian scholar A. G. Noorani, Jinnah ended up squandering his leverage.
According to Iqbal the first step was the creation of a community of Muslims in the Muslim majority land, i.e.
According to Jaswant Singh, "With Jinnah's death Pakistan lost its moorings.
According to Jaswant Singh, "the events of 1937 had a tremendous, almost a traumatic effect upon Jinnah".
According to Jinnah, India acquired the accession through "fraud and violence".
According to Madani the first step was the freedom of India for which composite nationalism was necessary.
According to Manekshaw's own personal account, he refused, citing the onset of monsoon season in East Pakistan and also the fact that the army tanks were being refitted.
According to Mohiuddin, "Jinnah's death deprived Pakistan of a leader who could have enhanced stability and democratic governance ...
According to Musharraf, lieutenant-general TP was an ill-mannered, foul-mouthed, ill-disciplined officer who caused a great deal of dissent within the armed forces.
According to Nadeem Nusrat, the "Minus Altaf formula" was not acceptable.
According to National Counter Terrorism Authority (Nacta), Pakistan experienced largest number of terrorist attack in 2010.
According to Obama administration officials, US officials did not share information about the raid with the government of Pakistan until it was over.
According to PAF, it flew 86 F-86 Sabres, 10 F-104 Star fighters and 20 B-57 Canberra's in a parade soon after the war was over.
According to Pakistan and Afghanistan expert Ahmed Rashid, "between 1994 and 1999, an estimated few Pakistanis volunteers trained and fought in Afghanistan" keeping the Taliban regime in power.
According to Pakistani historians, the trauma was extremely severe, and the cost of the war for Pakistan in monetary terms and in human resources was very high.
According to Philip E. Jones, the Peoples Party had three main ideological camps: Marxists, Islamic socialists and the landed elite.
According to SIPRI, 81% of Pakistan's arms imports between 2019 and 2024 came from China.
According to Sartaj Aziz, deputy chairman of the Planning Commission, it was Foreign Minister Bhutto who had inadvertently set Pakistan on the road to war with India.
According to Schofield, after Zardari's return from prison, the Bhuttos' marriage was going through a process of "readjustment".
According to Shajeel Zaidi a million people attended Zia ul Haq's funeral because he had given them what they wanted: more religion.
According to South Asian Terrorism Portal Index (SATP), terrorism in Pakistan has declined by 89% in 2017 since its peak years in 2009.
According to Stephen P. Cohen and John Wilson, the ISI's aid to and creation of designated terrorist groups and religious extremist groups is well-documented.
According to Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), Pakistan is China's biggest arms buyer, counting for nearly 63% of Chinese arms exports.
According to Voice for Baloch Missing Persons (VBMP) around 528 Baloch have gone missing from 2001 to 2017.
According to Women's Studies professor Shahla Haeri, rape in Pakistan is "often institutionalized and has the tacit and at times the explicit approval of the state".
According to World Bank data, India's defence expenditure by GDP decreased from 3.871% in 1965 to 3.141% in 1969, then slightly increased to 3.652% in 1971.
According to World Bank, in 2014, women made up 22.3% of the labor force in Pakistan.
According to Zahid Malik, Musharraf and the military establishment at that time acted against Abdul Qadeer Khan in an attempt to prove the loyalty of Pakistan to the United States and Western world.
According to a 1998 report by Amnesty International, more than one-third of all Pakistani women in prison were being held due to having been accused or found guilty of zina.
According to a 2014 poll by the BBC World Service, over 75% of Pakistanis view China's influence positively, with less than 15% expressing a negative view.
According to a January 2024 Bloomberg survey of 12 Pakistani financial professionals, Khan was the "top pick" to run the country's economy.
According to a Pew survey of Pakistani public opinion in 2010, 84 per cent of respondents said they had a favourable view of China and 16 per cent had a favourable view of the United States.
According to a Russian documentary, the United Kingdom also deployed a carrier battle group led by the aircraft carrier HMS Eagle to the Bay,[better source needed] on her final deployment.
According to a White House official, Sharif seemed to be genuinely surprised by this supposed missile movement and responded that India was probably planning the same.
According to a World Values Survey from 2017 to 2020, 44 percent of Pakistanis said that same-sex couples are as good parents as heterosexual couples, while 31 percent disagreed.
According to a calculation completed by the Federal Bureau of Statistics, the standard of living for the rich improved while the standard of living for the poor declined.
According to a poll in an Indian newspaper Indians were keener to keep control of Kashmir than Pakistanis.
According to a report by the UK Foreign Office, Pakistan's media environment continued to develop and, in many cases, flourish.
According to a study carried out by Human Rights Watch there is a rape once every two hours and a gang rape every hour.
According to a study carried out in 2009 by Human Rights Watch, it is estimated that between 70 and 90 percent of women and girls in Pakistan have suffered some form of abuse.
According to a survey conducted by Pulse Consultant, a staggering 35% of Pakistanis hold the belief that no woman is safe in the country.
According to author Pervez Hoodbhoy, Jinnah repeatedly referred to Pakistan's constitutional framework as reliant on the "fundamentals" of the Quran and Sharia without any further elaboration.
According to authors Kenton Worcester, Sally Bermanzohn and Mark Ungar, Bengalis themselves killed about 150,000 non-Bengalis living in the East.
According to former Indian Prime-minister Manmohan Singh, one of the main reasons behind the conflict was Pakistan's "terror-induced coercion".
According to his biographer, Stanley Wolpert, Jinnah remains Pakistan's greatest leader.
According to historian Ayesha Jalal, while there is a tendency towards hagiography in the Pakistani view of Jinnah, in India he is viewed negatively.
According to historian Ian Talbot, "The provincial Congress governments made no effort to understand and respect their Muslim populations' cultural and religious sensibilities.
According to historian Mridu Rai, for three decades Delhi's handpicked politicians in Kashmir had supported the State's accession to India in return for generous disbursements from Delhi.
According to historian Yaqoob Khan Bangash, the provisional government lacked sway over the population which had intense pro-Pakistan sentiments.
According to historian Zutshi, in the late 1940s, most Kashmiri Muslims in Indian Kashmir were still debating the value of the state's association with India or Pakistan.
According to historical references and a report published by the leading Pakistani newspaper The Nation, "Mujib no longer believed in Pakistan and is determined to make Bangladesh".
According to independent sources, the PAF lost 20 aircraft while the Indians lost 60–75.
According to informed sources, the transfer allowed China to potentially reverse-engineer the missile technology or develop electronic countermeasures.
According to journalists of the time, the election did not conform to international standards; many viewed the election results with great suspicion.
According to lawyer Asma Jahangir, who is a co-founder of the women's rights group Women's Action Forum, up to seventy-two percent of women in custody in Pakistan are physically or sexually abused.
According to media reports, the ratio of female infanticides is higher than male.
According to modern Pakistani sources, in 1974 one of the PAF pilots, Flt.
According to numbers stated by Nawaz Sharif, there were over 4,000 fatalities.
According to one Pakistani scholar, Tariq Ali, Pakistan lost half its navy in the war.
According to political scientist Shafik H. Hashmi, the US and other nations assured Nawaz that Pakistan was safe; the Israeli attack never materialized.
According to political scientist and civic-military relations expert Aqil Shah, Nawaz finally did exactly what former chairman joint chiefs Jehangir Karamat had called for in 1998.
According to reports circulating on media channels, the student accused the professor of engaging in "blasphemy" for reprimanding him for skipping class to attend rallies held by the TLP.
According to reports, Ahuja had bailed out of his stricken plane safely but was apparently killed by his captors as his body was returned riddled with bullet wounds.
According to some authors and historians, some influential groups were not ready to accept the PPP's taking power in 1971.
According to some estimates, 90 percent of civil cases involve land disputes, owing to Pakistan's lack of a proper land register.
According to some experts, the ISI is the largest intelligence agency in the world in terms of total staff.
According to some reports, these Pakistani forces were backed by Kashmiri guerrillas and Afghan mercenaries.
According to state government sources, the rebellious militias gathered in the Naoshera-Islamabad area, attacking the state troops and their supply trucks.
According to the 1941 census, the state's population was 77 percent Muslim, 20 percent Hindu and 3 percent others (Sikhs and Buddhists).
According to the 1999 report by the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan, only two percent of Pakistani women participate in the formal sector of employment.
According to the 2002 study, 99% of 256 respondents reported facing corruption of taxation.
According to the Assistant British High Commissioner in Pakistan, H. S. Stephenson, "the Poonch affair... was greatly exaggerated".
According to the Aurat Foundation, about 1,000 non-Muslim girls are forcibly converted to Islam in Pakistan every year.
According to the British plan for the partition of British India, all the 680 princely states were allowed to decide which of the two countries to join.
According to the Election Commission of Pakistan, Nawaz is one of the wealthiest men in Pakistan, with an estimated net worth of at least Rs.
According to the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan data, just around 1,000 Hindu families fled to India in 2013.
According to the Inter-Parliamentary Union ranking, Pakistan ranks 100th in the list of 190 countries in terms of representation of women.
According to the Pakistan Bureau of Statistics (formerly the Federal Bureau of Statistics), they had a combined daily sale of 6.1 million copies in 2009.
According to the Pakistani foreign ministry, the operation was conducted entirely by US forces.
According to the Panama Papers, documents leaked in 2016 from law firm Mossack Fonseca, Nawaz's family holds millions of dollars' worth of property and companies in the UK and around the world.
According to the Progressive Women's Association such attacks are a growing problem and in 1994 on International Women's Day announced that various NGO's would join to raise awareness of the issue.
According to the Surveying and Mapping Act.
According to the United Nations, the Kashmiris have grievances with the Indian government, specifically the Indian military, which has committed human rights violations.
According to the V-Dem Democracy indices Pakistan was autocratizing in 2024.
According to the allegations, he had attached a remote-control bomb to the leg of a businessman and forced the latter to enter a bank and withdraw money.
According to the article, the majority of Pasban-e-Aman Force personnel belong to Gujar Khan, the constituency of then NA Speaker Raja Pervez Ashraf.
According to the author, on the one hand, Pakistan is both a Chinese pawn (against India) and platform for power projection, but there are limits to this approach.
According to the constitution (Article 2), Islam is the state religion.
According to the constitution, the 70 seats reserved for women and religious minorities are allocated to the political parties according to their proportional representation.
According to the leaked files, in December 2009, the government of Tajikistan had also told US officials that many in Pakistan were aware of bin Laden's whereabouts.
According to the new anti-rape bill, DNA testing was made mandatory in rape cases.
According to the new law, anyone who rapes a minor or a mentally or physically disabled person will be liable for the death penalty or life imprisonment.
According to the pilot, he got separated from his formation due to a malfunctioning compass and radio.
According to the recommendation, the Postal and Railway Service should be made autonomous commercial bodies, and Commerce and Trade and Information Services should be suspended till further notice.
According to the research, 81% of Pakistanis responded favourably to China.
According to the same resolution, since then nearly 400,000 Pandits were either murdered or forced to leave their ancestral homes.
According to the sources, the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) was ordered by Sharif to divert the plane to India but then it was rerouted to Shaheed Benazirabad, then known as Nawabshah.
According to the survey, Musharraf had only 9% public approval as opposed to Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif.
According to them Muslims and Hindus could be one nation and Muslims were only a nation of themselves in the religious sense and not in the territorial sense.
According to them, he was a serving Indian Navy officer who was arrested from Balochistan.
According to then COAS of India VP Malik, Pakistan did not want to escalate further.
According to these new amendments, the publisher would be liable and prosecuted if a story was not to the liking of the administration even if it was factual and of national interest.
According to this agreement a ceasefire was effected in Kashmir on 1 January 1949.
According to this amendment, the maximum duration between successive sessions was reduced to 90 days from 130 days, and there must be at least three sessions in a year.
According to this plan India would be kept united but would be heavily decentralised with separate groupings of autonomous Hindu and Muslim majority provinces.
According to veterans of the war, the war greatly cost Pakistan economically, politically, and militarily.
Accordingly, Jinnah's imagery of the Pakistan began to become clear that it was to have an Islamic nature.
Accordingly, the Maharaja signed an instrument of accession on 26 October 1947, which was accepted by the Governor General the next day.
Accordingly, the instrument of accession was signed and accepted during 26–27 October 1947.
Accumulated losses of up to Rs 254 million were reported with several instances of over-staffing and inefficient productivity in heavy mechanical industries.
Acid and kerosene are thrown at women, mostly in the direction of their faces, as a form of permanent punishment.
Acid attacks occur within the public sphere.
Across the country, the expectations were that a National Assembly would be set up by holding a free and fair election.
Adding 28 women and 5 Minority seats, the total tally reached 149.
Additional District & Sessions Judges are appointed by the Provincial & federal High Courts, from a pool of Lawyers and subordinate judges.
Additionally the Government of Pakistan has itself admitted on several occasions that it has absolutely no control over the military of Pakistan and related security agencies.
Additionally there are 3339 neighbourhood, ‘tehsil’ and village councils in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Additionally, 41 percent agreed that these individuals should be protected from workplace discrimination.
Additionally, 43% of respondents expressed the view that women are safe to some extent, while a mere 20% believe that women are truly safe in Pakistan.
Additionally, Afghan women athletes residing in Pakistan reportedly face a range of issues like economic hardship, limited access to training facilities, and uncertainty regarding their legal status.
Additionally, India has imposed visa and diplomatic restrictions, halting visa services for Pakistani nationals and expelling several Pakistani diplomats.
Additionally, LGBTQ people in the country face legal and social difficulties and persecution compared to non-LGBTQ persons.
Additionally, Muttaqi stated that militant violence in Pakistan was an internal issue for Islamabad and maintained that Afghanistan should not be blamed for Pakistan’s domestic security problems.
Additionally, PTI secured government in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa with 78 seats, Punjab with 175 seats, and formed an alliance government in Balochistan.
Additionally, Pakistan also administers two autonomous territories[Note 1] in the disputed region of Kashmir: Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan.
Additionally, a Russian delegation is set to explore establishing a state-of-the-art steel mill at the Pakistan Steel Mills site.
Additionally, a stroke which left him half paralysed and his obesity had worsened his health, making him increasingly frail and incapable of resuming a normal life.
Additionally, about 74% of Pakistanis regarded the United States as an enemy nation.
Additionally, advisors nominated by the chairman are part of the council.
Additionally, authorities across various states started a crackdown on illegal immigrants from Pakistan and began the process of deporting them.
Additionally, capital gains tax was withdrawn for homeowners selling houses.
Additionally, he inaugurated four new universities in Multan, Bahawalpur, and Khairpur.
Additionally, the IHC found no evidence connecting Maryam Nawaz Sharif to the alleged conspiracy with her father.
Addressing the Pakistan Army, he said "if you are neutral then be neutral too".
Addressing the bureaucracy and the police, Khan said it would be illegal for them to take any action against the "peaceful protest".
Adil Gillani, an advisor for TI Pakistan, observed in 2012 that if Pakistan checked the menace of corruption and ensured good governance, it would not require a single penny from the outside world.
Administration of two discontinuous territories was also seen as a challenge.
Admiral Bokhari abruptly tendered his resignation to the Prime Minister Sharif and noted to Sharif that since General Musharraf was his junior and often referred to him as "Sir".
Admiral Bokhari also noted that a power struggle between an elected Prime Minister and appointed-Chairman joint chiefs ensued and relations were severely damaged after the Kargil war.
Admiral Bokhari testified in media that: "The two men could not work together, both were preparing to take active actions against each other.
Admiral Fasih Bokhari resigned as Chief of Naval Staff in protest.
Advocates can be admitted as either individuals or groups and their admission is approved by the elected president of the Bar.
Advocating pan-Islamic unity, Bhutto developed closer relations with Indonesia and Saudi Arabia.
Afghan President Ashraf Ghani stated that Pakistan has instigated an "undeclared war of aggression" against the country.
Afghan President Dawood Khan's controversial Pashtunisation policies led to gruesome violence and civil disturbances in Pakistan.
Afghan President's spokesperson, Aimal Faizi, told reporters that the National Directorate of Security (NDS) was working with Latif.
Afghan officials blamed Pakistan for the unilateral closure, while Pakistan had not issued an immediate statement.
Afghanistan also supported the Faqir of Ipi, a Pashtun tribal leader who revolted in Waziristan, with the goal of seizing Pashtunistan from Pakistan.
Afghanistan and Pakistan are neighboring countries.
Afghanistan's economy is one of the fastest growing economies in the world.
Afghanistan's immediate support of secessionist movements within Pakistan prevented normalised ties from emerging between the two states.
Afghanistan's long-standing reliance on Pakistani ports has allowed Islamabad to leverage its influence to pressure Kabul into addressing the issue of Pakistani militants hiding within Afghanistan.
Afghanistan—with Soviet support—again pursued a policy of arming Pashtun separatists within Pakistan.
Afrasiab Khattak summarized the shift by stating "[Nawaz] knows extremism is not good for business".
Afridi was not allowed to attend his brother's funeral and was kept in inhumane conditions in a 'death cell' reserved for those on death row.
After 12 days of proceedings, the Supreme Court concluded that the president of Pakistan can change a death sentence into life imprisonment.
After 1993, the country's national economy again entered in the second period of the stagflation and more roughly began bite the country's financial resources and the financial capital.
After 2 days of intense warfare, it was deemed impossible to just conclude the attack with one battalion so 8 Sikh was ordered to move from the west into Tiger Hill.
After 2020 FPSC has introduced MPT in order to shortlist the candidates before actual exams.
After 9/11, Pakistan, led by General Pervez Musharraf, reversed course as they were under pressure from the United States and joined the "war on terror" as a U.S. ally.
After Al Zulfikar orchestrated the 1981 Pakistan International Airlines hijacking, the government used this as the pretext for re-arresting Bhutto and her mother in March.
After Baldwin was defeated at the 1929 British parliamentary election, Ramsay MacDonald of the Labour Party became prime minister.
After Bangladesh was formed in 1971, the PPP formed the government and partially enacted the 1962 constitution.
After Benazir Bhutto was assassinated in 2007 and Nawaz Sharif returned from self-exile in Saudi Arabia, pressure increased upon President Musharraf to hold democratic elections.
After Dr. Hassan and Bhutto's arrest on 12 November 1968, Asghar Khan held a press conference in Lahore on 17 November 1968.
After Fatima Jinnah's death, the PML was led by Nurul Amin, a Bengali leader, who deepened its role in West Pakistan.
After France and Britain, the Indian colony of Britain was the third region to see this methodology implemented.
After France's project was cancelled, Nawaz Sharif successfully held talks with the China to build the largest commercial nuclear plant, CHASNUPP-I in Chasma city in Pakistan.
After General Zia's death in August 1988, his political party – Pakistan Muslim League (Pagara Group) – split into two factions.
After IJI dissolved and Nawaz Sharif founded Pakistan Muslim League (N), PPP and PML(N) were the major two parties of Pakistan.
After Independence, the first Constituent Assembly of Pakistan, elected in December 1947 after partition, was assigned the task of framing the Constitution of Pakistan.
After India breached the Madhupur canal on 11 September, the Khem Karan counter-offensive was halted, affecting Pakistan's strategy substantially.
After India discovered the infiltration, a fierce Indian offensive nearly led to a full-scale war.
After India entered the war, Pakistan, fearing certain defeat, made urgent appeals to the United Nations to intervene and force India to agree to a ceasefire.
After India's nuclear test—codenamed Smiling Buddha—in May 1974, Bhutto sensed and saw this test as the final anticipation for Pakistan's death.
After Jinnah died, his sister Fatima asked the court to execute Jinnah's will under Shia Islamic law.
After Khurshid Anwar and some of the tribesmen advanced again, about 1,000 of them reached Budgam by 3 November, which was within striking distance of the Srinagar airfield.
After Murtaza's death, Bhutto re-established a relationship with her mother.
After Musharraf left the country, the new Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee General Tärik Majid terminated all further debriefings of Abdul Qadeer Khan.
After Musharraf's resignation, Abdul Qadeer Khan was released from house arrest by the executive order of the Supreme Court of Pakistan.
After Nehru's death in 1964, Abdullah was interned from 1965 to 1968 and exiled from Kashmir in 1971 for 18 months.
After Pakistan gained independence in 1947, the Parliament retained the Penal Code, merely changing the title to Pakistan Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860).
After Pakistan's defeat in the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971, the two nations signed the Simla Agreement promising not to engage in armed conflict with respect to that boundary.
After President Rafiq Tarar's resignation, Musharraf formally appointed himself as President on 20 June 2001.
After Sharif's government did so, Bhutto called for Pakistan to sign the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and arrive at a bilateral agreement on nuclear proliferation with India.
After White's death in 2004, Jemima, his wife and a friend of Sita, was named Tyrian's legal guardian in her will.
After Zia assumed power, Pakistan's relations with the Soviet Union deteriorated and Zia strove for strong relations with the United States.
After Zia's death, the Supreme Court announced that the election should take place on a party basis, rather than the non-party basis that Zia had desired.
After Zia-ul-Haq's regime, there was a visible change in the policy context in favor of women.
After Zulfikar Ali Bhutto came into power in 1973, he introduced a planned economic system to revitalise the stagnant economy.
After Zulfikar's death the party abandoned its socialist ideology and instead shifted to progressivism under Zulfikar's daughter, Benazir Bhutto.
After Zulfikar's death, Benazir replaced his role in the party, becoming its co-leader.
After Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto died, Benazir Bhutto took control and they remained in a strong position throughout Pakistan.
After a brief 'honeymoon' phase between India and Bangladesh, their relationship began to sour.
After a crowd of over one million people greeted Zulfikar's release in Karachi and demonstrations were held in support of the ousted president, Zia decided to eliminate him permanently.
After a decades-long struggle, the military government was forced to transfer power to democratically elected officials.
After a military coup d'état in 1958, Ayub Khan argued that left wing activists could seize power in Pakistan, thereby jeopardizing American interests in the region.
After a political rally in Rawalpindi, she was assassinated in December 2007.
After a successful intervention by Supreme Court and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs General Shamim Allam, President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif tendered resignations in 1993.
After a thorough confirmation comes from the Prime minister, the President confirms the judicial appointments in the national court system.
After a year of study, Bhutto implemented and enforced the Eighth Plan to overcome the stagflation by creating a dependable and effective mechanism for accelerating economic and social progress.
After accusations of being too conciliatory towards India, Bhutto took a harder line against them, particularly on the Kashmir conflict.
After an 11-hour procession from the airport, he reached a mosque where he offered prayers as well as criticism against Musharraf.
After an 18-month trial conducted in secrecy, Major-General Khan and Faiz Ahmed Faiz were both convicted and sentenced to long terms of imprisonment.
After an hour of failed negotiations, he announced the rally would return to Tank, about 15 kilometres away.
After an hour, the replacement ambulance came, and transported Jinnah to Government House, arriving there over two hours after the landing.
After appointing Rafiq Tarar, the Parliament successfully passed constitutional amendment to decisively limit the presidency.
After approximately four months in Banni, on April 20, 1972, Yahya was transferred to his personal residence at 61 Harley Street in central Rawalpindi.
After assuming power, Bhutto aimed to diversify Pakistan's relations, leading to its exit from CENTO and SEATO.
After becoming the commander-in-chief of the army, Yahya energetically started reorganizing the Pakistan Army in 1966.
After being ousted in 1993, when President Ghulam Ishaq Khan dissolved the National Assembly, Nawaz served as the leader of the opposition to the government of Benazir Bhutto from 1993 to 1996.
After both the withdrawals were completed, a plebiscite would be held.
After consultation with the leadership of all political parties in the Parliament, Speaker National Assembly announced the Constitutional Reforms Committee (CRC) on 29 April 2009.
After dawn on 26 May, Imran Khan called off the March on Blue Area just 2.1 miles away from where the police stood firing tear gas shells.
After deposing Sharif's government, the party split into several groups and its size shrunk as many of its members decided to defect to the splinter political bloc.
After dismissing Prime Minister Junejo, President Zia-ul-Haq announced that new general elections would be held, but President Zia died in a plane crash in 1988.
After failing to return to Pakistan when his bail expired, the IHC declared him an absconder.
After falling out with them, his name and image were suppressed on television, and his access to family and lawyers was restricted.
After few arrests and intensive manhunt search, the ISI finally captured Ramzi before he could flee the country.
After first session at the Parliament, Musharraf voluntarily transferred the powers of chief executive to Prime Minister Zafarullah Khan Jamali.
After five bouncers against him, the bowler bowled the sixth ball, which knocked his stumps over as it went through.
After five years of basic service, officers are entrusted with sensitive jobs and considered part of the core team.
After further fighting during the war of 1971, the Simla Agreement formally established the Line of Control between the territories under Indian and Pakistani control.
After having been liberalised in 2002, the television sector experienced a media boom.
After he complied, he was arrested on blasphemy charges by the Federal Investigation Agency (FIA).
After he died in 1974, the diary was not released to the public for thirty years due to opinions that would have been detrimental to the reputation of powerful individuals at the time.
After he ruled out a lockdown again on 22 March 2020, the Pakistan Army took action at the request of the provinces, imposing a nationwide lockdown within 24 hours.
After her election, party workers were encouraged to refer to her as Mohtarma ("respected lady").
After her hospitalisation and recovery she went on to win the Nobel Peace Prize in conjunction with Kailash Satyarthi for their work for children's rights.
After her three-month term was up, she was succeeded by her close friend, Victoria Schofield.
After his cabinet removed some of its controversial aspects, the National Assembly approved and passed the bill on 10 October 1998 by a vote of 151 to 16.
After his death she repeatedly presented his execution as a martyrdom.
After his death, his descendants became active in national politics in the 1990s until the present; however, these family members have been controversial.
After his death, his relatives and other witnesses claimed that he had converted later on in life to Sunni Islam.
After his death, his wife remained an influential figure in the Pakistani foreign service and was Governor of Sindh Province in the 1970s.
After his death, the government of Pakistan released a commemorative stamp and his face is printed on postage stamps across the country.
After his death, the military government under General Zia-ul-Haq, which had taken power in a 1977 Pakistani military coup, accorded him a dignified military funeral.
After his execution, the senior party leadership handed over the chairmanship of the party to his wife, Nusrat Bhutto, and held the position into the 1980s.
After his ouster in 2022, Khan blamed army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa and criticised the military leadership, including General Asim Munir and the ISPR.
After his ouster, Khan said the visit had secured offers of discounted oil and wheat.
After his ouster, month later Khan led the 2022 Azadi march, and later the Haqeeqi Azadi march in October to protest the new government and call for early elections in the country.
After his release he was reconciled with Nehru.
After his removal, Khan again alleged US involvement, stating that the US opposed his foreign policy that strengthened ties with China and Russia.
After his resignation, Musharraf went to perform a holy pilgrimage to Mecca.
After his retirement, he helped President Muhammed Zia-ul-Haq.
After his six-month appointment period, Jinnah was offered a permanent position on a 1,500 rupee per month salary.
After holding general elections in 1990, Nawaz Sharif brought up an ideologically conservative government and President Ghulam Ishaq Khan unsuccessfully tried to dismiss Sharif.
After hours of intense battle, Lt. Col. Joshi was unable to capture the point due to the fortification disadvantage and two companies of the battalion found themselves stuck in daylight.
After independence, Khan was appointed the first Prime Minister of Pakistan by the founding fathers of Pakistan.
After induction, women army officers go through a six-month military training at the Pakistan Military Academy which is not like their male counterparts.
After intense criticism from the PPP and MQM, Nawaz completed the Orangi Cottage Industrial Zone but this did not repair his reputation in Sindh.
After its military pact with the United States in the 1950s, it intensively studied guerrilla warfare through engagement with the US military.
After joining the All-India Muslim League, Jinnah worked for the rights of Muslims in the subcontinent to protect them from the threat of marginalisation in a Hindu-dominated state.
After lengthy discussions on 7 December, the United States made a resolution for "immediate cease-fire and withdrawal of troops".
After long separations, their relationship ended in 1986.
After meeting President General Pervez Musharraf for two-and-a-half hours discussing Nawaz Sharif's possible return.
After meeting senior Saudi royals, the next day he went to Medina and performed Umrah in Mecca.
After meeting with Jinnah and with Gandhi, Linlithgow announced that negotiations on self-government were suspended for the duration of the war.
After more than a decade, he returned to politics in 2011 and led his party to victory for the third time in 2013.
After obtaining a vote of confidence, the prime minister is invited by the president to take the oath of office and form the government.
After passage of the 18th and 19th Constitutional Amendments, a new Judicial Commission (named Judicial Commission of Pakistan) and Parliamentary Committee were established for appointments.
After publication, the U.S. denied trying to remove him, saying its concerns were about policy, not leadership.
After raising awareness of sexual assault committed by Pakistani security forces on women, Gulalai Ismail fled the country as police forces were on their way to arrest her.
After refuelling the plane took off for Dubai and then finally landed in Kandahar, Afghanistan.
After removal, Imran Khan waged a campaign against the military and held rallies and speeches in which he criticized the army's role in Pakistani politics.
After resigning as foreign minister, large crowds gathered to hear Bhutto's speech upon his arrival in Lahore on 21 June 1967.
After retiring from cricket, he founded the Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, Pakistan's first cancer hospital.
After reviewing the effects of the tests for roughly two weeks Sharif ordered the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission to perform a series of nuclear tests in the remote area of the Chagai Hills.
After staging a controversial self coup in 1999, General Pervez Musharraf dismissed Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and President Rafiq Tarar in 2001 while assuming more powers to the presidency.
After suffering for months from his illness, Iqbal died in Lahore on 21 April 1938.
After the 1954 provincial elections in East Pakistan, the Awami League formed the government there while West Pakistan was governed by the PML, but the PML government collapsed in 1956.
After the 1958 coup d'état, all national intelligence agencies were directly controlled by the president and Chief Martial Law Administrator.
After the 1965 war, the arms race between India and Pakistan became even more asymmetric and India was outdistancing Pakistan by far.
After the 1971 war, Pakistan and India made slow progress towards the normalisation of relations.
After the 1977 election, plans were in place to add seven thousand new hostel seats to the existing accommodation.
After the 1984 referendum, President Zia-ul-Haq had become the country's elected president.
After the 1987 state legislative assembly election, some of the results were disputed.
After the 1993 general election, the PPP nominated Farooq Leghari who soon secured majority votes in the parliament.
After the 2001 Gujarat earthquake, Musharraf expressed his sympathies to Indian Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and sent a plane load of relief supplies to India.
After the 2011 elections, Azad Kashmir Prime Minister Sardar Attique Ahmad Khan stated that there were mistakes in the voters list which have raised questions about the credibility of the elections.
After the 2018 Pakistan elections, PTI became the government and became one of the three major parties of Pakistan.
After the 2019 Pulwama attack in Indian-held Kashmir, India blamed Pakistan.
After the Afghan Taliban took power in Kabul, Pakistan's PM Imran Khan described it as Afghans breaking "the shackles of slavery".
After the Bangladesh Liberation War Pakistan was becoming less autocratic until the 1977 Pakistani military coup after the 1977 Pakistani general election.
After the IJI government of prime minister Nawaz Sharif was also dismissed on corruption charges, Bhutto once again led the PPP to victory in the 1993 elections.
After the Indo-Pakistani war of 1965, the balance of military power had decisively shifted in favor of India.
After the JIT submitted its report and subsequent arguments were heard, the Court disqualified Sharif from holding public office by unanimous verdict.
After the Pakistani defeat, Pakistan's leader Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, an anti-American, improved relations with the Soviets.
After the Pakistani forces failed to honour the ceasefire and withdraw forces, the Indian forces resumed operations and point 4700 was captured by Para SF.
After the Pakistani forces refused to withdraw, Indian forces under the command of Brig MPS Bajwa of 192 Mountain Brigade launched an attack on the Zulu Spur on 22 July.
After the Partition of British India in August 1947, he joined the Pakistan Army and was posted in East Bengal.
After the September 11 attacks in 2001 in the United States, Pakistan became a key ally in the war on terror with the United States.
After the Soviet Union troop withdrawal withdrawing the combatant troops from Communist Afghanistan, relations began to normalize with Pakistan.
After the Soviet Union's intervention in Afghanistan President Ronald Reagan immediately moved to help Zia supply and finance an anti-Soviet insurgency.
After the Soviet troops withdrew from Afghanistan, Pakistan-backed mujahideen factions eventually overthrew Najibullah's regime in the early 1990s.
After the Taliban took power in 2021, border clashes between Pakistan and Afghanistan have increased sharply.
After the Twenty-Fifth Amendment, the number of seats in the Senate was reduced to 96, as the seats for FATA were removed after its merger with KPK.
After the adoption of the Second Constitution of 1962, Parliament sessions were arranged both at Dhaka and a newly constructed building (Ayub Hall) at Rawalpindi.
After the appointment of Justice Qazi Faez Isa, there has come a significant change in the working of the apex court of the land.
After the approval of 18th Constitutional Amendment in April 2010, a new High court is established at Federal Capital Islamabad with the name of Islamabad High Court.
After the assassination of Muhtarma Benazir Bhutto on 27 December 2007, date of election was rescheduled for 18 February 2008.
After the assassination of Prime Minister Ali Khan, the Muslim League struggled to revive itself, eventually losing control of East Pakistan in legislative elections to the Left Front.
After the assent of the president on 19 April 2010, 18th Amendments became part of Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
After the attempted pre-emptive attack, the PAF adopted a defensive stance in response to the Indian retaliation.
After the battle of Tiger Hill, the next important objective was to capture point 4875 North-West of Mashkoh.
After the breakdown of the relationship with the military in 1999, the party was eclipsed by its own splinter faction, the Musharraf-backed "Quaid", for almost a decade.
After the campaign, he was transferred to the 17th Poona Horse (Queen Victoria's Own), as an army inspector but left active service to join the Indian Political Service (IPS) in August 1926.
After the ceasefire on 17 December, both sides attempted to take back lost territory.
After the coalition's collapse, Nawaz pressured Zardari to reinstate the judges Musharraf removed during emergency rule.
After the coup, Bhutto's brothers were sent abroad to canvass international support for their father.
After the coup, Zulfikar had appointed his wife co-chair of the PPP, while in October 1977 Benazir was appointed to the PPP's central committee.
After the creation of Pakistan in 1947, Nawaz's parents migrated from Amritsar to Lahore.
After the creation of Pakistan in 1947, many anti blasphemy laws and clauses were introduced in Pakistan's Penal Code.
After the deadly 9/11 attacks in the United States and Musharraf's unconditional policy to support the American war in Afghanistan, further damaged Musharraf's credibility in the country.
After the death of his father in 1919, he attended Oxford University's Exeter College to pursue his higher education.
After the defeat in 1962 Sino-Indian War, the Indian military was undergoing major changes in personnel and equipment.
After the defeat of its Kashmiri ambitions, an increasingly vocal opposition challenged the army's invincibility.
After the devastating floods in 2022, Russia provided assistance to Pakistan.
After the dismissal of Nawaz Sharif's government in July 2017, Khawaja Muhammad Asif held the portfolio of foreign minister under the premiership of Shahid Khaqan Abbasi.
After the draw down of civil-military relations in 1999, Chairman joint chiefs General Pervez Musharraf staged a coup d'état against the PML(N)'s government and held nationwide elections in 2002.
After the election of Nawaz Sharif in 1990, the ANP again formed a coalition with former rivals PML.
After the election, PTI formed a wide ranging coalition government of several parties falling at the political centre.
After the elections, the PML-Q nominated Zafarullah Khan Jamali for the office of prime minister, which Musharraf also approved.
After the end of the first Gulf War in 1991, Pakistani army engineers were involved in a programme of mine clearance in the country.
After the fall of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) -led coalition government in 2022, the emergence of multiple crises has exacerbated the instability of its foreign policy.
After the foundation of Pakistan, it has established diplomatic and trade relations with Egypt.
After the general elections held in 1970, the office was established with Nurul Amin becoming the prime minister who was also the vice-president.
After the general elections held in 1985, the office came to its existence.
After the general elections held in 2002, Zafarullah Khan Jamali was invited to form his administration as its prime minister.
After the indecisive war of 1965 with India, Pakistani people began to accuse Field Marshal Ayub Khan of betraying the cause of Kashmir.
After the independence, Liaquat Ali Khan became the first prime minister and Jinnah became the first Governor-General.
After the joint rally, Trump called himself a 'friend' of Pakistan and termed Imran Khan as a 'great leader'.
After the last war, the two countries reached the 1972 Simla Agreement, converting the cease-fire line into a Line of Control and disavowing the use of force across it.
After the letter reached to the chiefs of staff of armed forces and chairman joint chiefs, there was a fury of meeting of inter-services to discuss the situation.
After the liberation victory, the Awami League attempted to build a secular order and the pro-Pakistan Islamist parties were barred from political participation.
After the martial law of 1977, the party reassessed itself and saw the rise of the powerful oligarch bloc led by Zahoor Illahi, who was the main PML leader.
After the overthrow of Sheikh Abdullah, his lieutenant Mirza Afzal Beg formed the Plebiscite Front on 9 August 1955 to fight for the plebiscite demand and the unconditional release of Sheikh Abdullah.
After the partition of British India on the midnight of 14/15 August 1947, Pakistan followed the British system by creating the post of prime minister based at the Prime Minister's Secretariat.
After the partition of India and a rebellion in the western districts of the state, Pakistani tribal militias invaded Kashmir, leading the Hindu ruler of Jammu and Kashmir to join India.
After the partition of India, he decided to join the Pakistan Army in August 1947, he had already reached the rank of major (acting lieutenant-colonel).
After the presidential election held in 2008, Asif Ali Zardari lobbied for constitutional amendment to restore the Constitution as it was in 1973.
After the removal and death of Bhutto, Pakistan's ties with the United States were better and improved.
After the resignation from the post of Chief of Army Staff, Mr. Pervez Musharraf administered the oath of President of Islamic Republic of Pakistan on 29 November 2007.
After the restoration of democracy after the disastrous and mysterious death of Zia and U.S.
After the surrender of Pakistani forces, East Pakistan became the independent nation of Bangladesh.
After the victory of Imran Khan Niazi in the Pakistan General Elections 2018, Shah Mehmood Qureshi was named the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
After the war, India's Chief of Air Staff Marshal Arjan Singh claimed that the IAF was able to achieve air superiority within three days of the Pakistani air strikes.
After the war, Pakistan would increasingly look towards China as a major source of military hardware and political support.
After the war, a few changes were made to the Pakistan armed forces.
After the war, a significant number of Pakistanis regarded their military performance to be positive.
After the war, the Indian government severed ties with Pakistan and increased defence preparedness.
After the war, they were discharged with arms, which is said to have alarmed the Maharaja.
After the wedding, she soon became pregnant and gave birth to her first son, Bilawal.
After their discussions yielded no satisfactory results, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman called for a nationwide strike.
After their respective terms in office, each of the past five prime ministers of Pakistan has faced convictions or imprisonment.
After this incident, the Pakistani interior ministry rejected the list forwarded by India to Islamabad, saying it should first probe if those named in the list were even living in the country.
After this population exchange only a few thousand low-caste Hindus remained in Pakistani Punjab and only a tiny Muslim population remained in the town of Malerkotla in India's part of Punjab.
After three days of fighting the Baloch tribals were running out of ammunition and so withdrew by 1976.
After three years, she received a second-class degree.
After transferring 5,000,000 Pakistani rupees to the State Bank, investors receive an immigrant visa.
After two days, it became apparent on social media that the federal government of Pakistan had yet to issue any formal notification for the appointment of the new director general.
After two errors in the list received publicity, the Central Bureau of Investigation removed it from their website, pending review.
After two further wars in 1965 and 1971, only minor changes in the ground situation had been effected.
After years of political pressure, the Chief Minister of Punjab Usman Buzdar resigned.
Afterward, Miandad stepped down, citing limited co-operation from him, who was then reappointed captain.
Again, Iqbal depicts Rumi as a character and gives an exposition of the mysteries of Islamic laws and Sufi perceptions.
Against the background of catastrophic floods in Pakistan in 2022 and possible food shortages, Russia, in addition to gas supplies, offered to supply wheat to Pakistan.
Against the warnings of some of her advisors, Bhutto quickly returned to Pakistan, where she was briefly placed under house arrest.
Agha Muhammad Yahya Khan was born on 4 February 1917 in the town of Chakwal, Punjab, British India.
Agha Muhammad Yahya Khan[b] (4 February 1917 – 10 August 1980) was a Pakistani general who served as the third president of Pakistan from 1969 to 1971, under martial law.
Agreements on cultural exchanges and civil aviation were also initiated in 1988.
Ahmed also launched a flagship YouTube show called "Conversations with Kanwal.
Ahmed comments that in his annotations to Iqbal's letters, Jinnah expressed solidarity with Iqbal's view: that Indian Muslims required a separate homeland.
Ahmed deems Jinnah "the most maligned person in recent Indian history ...
Ahmed further avers that those scholars who have painted the later Jinnah as secular have misread his speeches which, he argues, must be read in the context of Islamic history and culture.
Ahmed has garnered international recognition through her work on SSP and has become a figure in advocating for the need of women only spaces.
Ahmed suggests that depicting the Quaid drinking would weaken Jinnah's Islamic identity, and by extension, Pakistan's.
Ahmed thought that the election of a female prime minister in a Muslim-majority country served as "a proclamation that Islam was a forward-thinking religion".
Aid to the Afghan resistance, and to Pakistan, increased substantially, finally reaching $1 billion.
Aid was given to Pakistan for the first time again in 2002, and the 2000s saw an extension of this friendly relationship.
Air superiority was not achieved, and they were unable to prevent IAF fighter bombers and reconnaissance Canberras from flying daylight missions over Pakistan.
Akashvani Kolkata also actively took part in this effort.
Aksai Chin, part of which was under Chinese jurisdiction before the war, remained under Chinese control since then.
Al Jazeera reported that "the leaders also pledged to begin a new era of economic co-operation, with Ghani saying three days of talks had ended 13 years of testy relations".
Al Jazeera reported that six judges of the Islamabad High Court (IHC) accused the ISI of interference in judicial matters, citing abduction, torture, and surveillance.
Al Jazeera states that 650 Pandits were murdered by militants.
Al-Qaeda has repeatedly labelled ISI their enemy, and claimed the Pakistani military and intelligence are their main targets in Pakistan.
Alarmed by India's surprise nuclear test in 1974, Bhutto accelerated Pakistan's atomic bomb project.
Ali Shariati, a Sorbonne-educated sociologist, supported Iqbal as his role model as Iqbal had Rumi.
Ali rejected this offer, preferring to keep Hyderabad, ignoring that the distance between the two would prevent Hyderabad's accession to Pakistan in any case.
Ali, Major Farouk Adam Khan, Squadron Leader Ghous, Colonel Aleem Afridi and Lt.
Alisha was an avid activist for the transgender community and worked hard all her life to make a living.
Alisha's friend Farzana said that transgender people are easily targeted as they are weak and have no social status.
Alisha's friends reported that the men discrimined against and taunted them, asked if Alisha's blood was "HIV-positive" and asked for her friend's phone number to invite her to a dance party.
Alishah continued to assert his authority and persisted in hearing Nawaz's case.
Alishah suspended the decision of Quetta High Court, but soon the Peshawar High Court issued similar orders removing Alishah's closest judges.
Alishah was restrained by his fellow judges from adjudicating in the case against the prime minister.
All administration, campaign, and party policies required complete permission from the CEC's co-chairman and the vice-chairmen.
All attempts were rebuffed, Zia shrewdly played his cards knowing that Carter was on his way out and he may get a better deal from the incoming Reagan.
All candidates who pass the examinations are given a psychological test.
All cases that come before the supreme court through the writs of certiorari that are processed through the law clerks and advocates.
All convictions awarded by judicial magistrates and convictions up to four years awarded by courts of assistant sessions judges or magistrates especially empowered under section 30 Cr.P.C.
All data and calculations are provided by Election Commission of Pakistan as the public domain.
All decisions that are pronounced by the supreme court, after hearing the review petitions, are considered as final rulings that are to be binding on all other courts in Pakistan.
All elections were contested under a separate electorate system, the 1990 elections had allegations of vote-rigging confirmed by foreign observers.
All executive authority of the Republic of Pakistan, under the Constitution, vested in the office of the president.
All external operations are carried out under the supervision of the ISI's S Wing.
All final decisions are appealable before the court of district judge while interim orders are not appealable but are challenged before high court through the constitutional jurisdiction.
All government services were opened to women including the district management group and the foreign service (in the civil service), which had been denied to them earlier.
All members of the Election Commission have equal status and say in the decisions of the Commission.
All members of the federal legislature, the Parliament, are directly elected.
All nations who value the human spirit will recognise it as a significant milestone in man's quest for liberty.
All of its previous democratic transitions have been aborted by military coups.
All of these Commander-in-Chiefs led their services during the conflict, and openly blamed each other for their intense failure.
All of these squadrons are part of the Strategic Command.
All other invited groups submitted lists of candidates to the Viceroy.
All power of executive was curtailed by the judicial commission and president has no discretionary power but only to approve the nominees.
All private media channels including foreign channels were banned.
All provincial assemblies are unicameral, elected for five years.
All provisions of the act will remain in force until the appeals processes are exhausted.
All supreme court advocates are required to be members of the Supreme Court Bar Association in order to plead the cases before the court.
All the Cabinet ministers as well as the Prime Minister must be members of Parliament (MPs), according to the constitution.
All the cadets have to attend and be trained at the PMA regardless of attending the military schools and colleges in other parts of the country.
All these criticisms harmed President Ayub Khan's image.
All this has cost Pakistan US$629 million.
All three of the aforementioned cases were won Imran Khan and his party.
All three sons went into business and politics, with Akbar, Arshad, and Yousaf Ayub Khan becoming successful members of the provincial and national assemblies.
All witnesses were taken into police custody, where two of them died.
Allegations of rigging in the 2024 Pakistani general election were widespread.
Allen also believed that Bhutto was so dedicated to her father that "psychologically", she was "unable to admit to any imperfection" in him.
Allen commented that although the PPP had once been officially socialist in ideology, Bhutto "was not a natural socialist, or even as adept at talking the talk as Zulfikar had been".
Allen commented that it would probably never be known how happy the couple's marriage was, for Bhutto "always projected support and loyalty for her unpopular mate".
Allen described Bhutto as "a woman of action rather than an intellectual".
Allen suggested that although Bhutto's record in office was that of a "corrupt, compromised politician", she displayed admirable qualities, especially valor in the face of opposition.
Allen thought her to have "some genuine, if unorthodox, religious belief, mixed up with superstition".
Almost 70% of the territory was recaptured by India.
Almost all judges of above-mentioned courts and tribunals except for consumer courts are district and sessions judges or of having same qualifications.
Almost all of Pakistan's languages descend from a common ancestor that was spoken in the Sintashta region in today's Russia during the mid Bronze Age.
Along with Liaquat and Abdur Rab Nishtar, Jinnah represented Pakistan's interests in the Division Council to appropriately divide public assets between India and Pakistan.
Along with diplomatic support, Pakistan served as a conduit for China to open up to the West.
Along with her, a friend of Gul's were also injured, but escaped death.
Along with media blackout, TLP faced social media and websites bans during the crackdown.
Along with reinforcements from 2 Rajputana Rifles under Lt Col M.B.
Also in 1951, he helped in elevating Commodore M.S.
Also in the same year, the Afghanistan–Pakistan skirmishes intensified and many large scale attacks by the Haqqani network took place across Afghanistan.
Also including F-16 armaments including 500 AMRAAM air-to-air missiles; 1,450 2,000-pound bombs; 500 JDAM Tail Kits for gravity bombs; and 1,600 Enhanced Paveway laser-guided kits.
Also known as the Mehran Bank scandal or Asghar Khan case, was a lawsuit filed by Asghar Khan in 1996, challenging the results of the 1990 elections.
Also the plaintiff in Shahla Zia v. WAPDA, the leading case on environmental law in Pakistan.
Also, Bengalis were underrepresented in the Pakistani military.
Also, Germany is home to 35,081 Pakistani immigrants.
Also, Nawaz Sharif was condemned to 10 years in lockup for money laundering, including his daughter Maryam Nawaz for 7 years.
Also, because Junagadh had a coastline, it could have maintained maritime links with Pakistan even as an enclave within India.
Also, following Pakistan's defeat, it ensured prompt recognition of the newly independent state of Bangladesh.
Also, in 1956, when Pakistan declared itself a republic, it continued as a member of the Commonwealth of Nations.
Also, the first woman Lambardar or Numberdar (Village Head Person) in West Pakistan Begum Sarwat Imtiaz took oath in Village 43/12-L in Chichawatni, District Montgomery (now Sahiwal) in 1959.
Also, the terms "Federal" and "National" in government institutions or program names generally indicate affiliation with the federal government.
Although Ali Khan was a legislator and lawyer, he lacked Jinnah's political stature.
Although Benazir was able to convince the U.S. business community to invest in Pakistan, she was unable to revert the economic embargo which kept investment away from the country.
Although Bhutto had long supported greater autonomy for Pakistan's provinces, she opposed it in the case of the Punjab.
Although East Pakistan accounted for a slight majority of the country's population, political power remained in the hands of West Pakistanis.
Although East Pakistan had the larger population, West Pakistan dominated the divided country politically and received more money from the common budget.
Although Iran later established ties with the reestablished Taliban government in Afghanistan, the insurgency in Balochistan has increased friction in relations between Iran and Pakistan.
Although Jinnah initially opposed separate electorates for Muslims, he used this means to gain his first elective office in 1909, as Bombay's Muslim representative on the Imperial Legislative Council.
Although Musharraf was elected in 2007, the constitutional legality of Musharraf's rule was found dubious.
Although Pakistan faced a severe economic crisis from 2022 to 2024, geographically Pakistan is an important country and a source of contact between Middle East, Central Asia, South Asia and East Asia.
Although Pakistan gained independence in 1947 and Pakistanis no longer hold British nationality, they remain Commonwealth citizens under British law.
Although President Khan invited the Awami League to a National Assembly session in Islamabad he did not ask them to form a government, due to opposition from the PPP.
Although Richard Nixon enjoyed firm relations with Bhutto and was a close friend of his, relations significantly soured under the presidency of Jimmy Carter.
Although both countries have vast cultural and religious differences, they have developed a special partnership.
Although both sides lost heavily in men and material, and neither gained a decisive military advantage, India had the best of the war.
Although death sentences for blasphemy have been issued on numerous occasions, no one has yet been executed by the order of the courts or government of Pakistan.
Although during her campaigns she vowed to abolish the hudud restrictions on women that Zia had introduced, she never did so; instead these were revoked by Musharraf in 2006.
Although enforced in 1973, Pakistan, however, celebrates the adoption of the constitution on 23 March—when the first set was promulgated in 1956 each and every year as Republic Day.
Although he returned to Karachi, he remained there only a short time before moving to Bombay.
Although he secured the release of Pakistani soldiers held by India, Bhutto was criticised by many in Pakistan for allegedly making too many concessions to India.
Although he supports Islam, Iqbal also recognises the positive aspects of other religions.
Although he thought he would not play, Imran was shocked to see that Sharif had walked out to do the toss with Viv Richards in full cricket whites, which included a cricket helmet.
Although his advisers favoured a gradual transfer of independence, Mountbatten decided the only way forward was a quick and orderly transfer of independence before 1947 was out.
Although it is without roots in Islamic tradition, the practice is often used by men to claim the land that would otherwise be inherited by their sisters and daughters upon marriage.
Although major fighting had broken down, ideological schisms caused splinter groups to form and steadily gain momentum.
Although many Indians termed this appeasement, Nehru signed a pact with Liaquat Ali Khan that pledged both nations to the protection of minorities and creation of minority commissions.
Although progress was made in Akhnoor, General Ayub Khan relieved the commanding officer, Major General Akhtar Hussain Malik, and replaced him with General Yahya Khan.
Although she had to compromise with Pakistan's powerful Islamist lobby, she favored a secular government for the country.
Although some of these laws were later repealed, religious minorities still continue to face several restrictions in politics.
Although sometimes criticise for being unprofessional and politically biased, the television channels have made a great contribution to the media landscape and to Pakistani society.
Although the Kashmir conflict was the predominant issue dividing the nations, other border disputes existed, most notably over the Rann of Kutch, a barren region in the Indian state of Gujarat.
Although the League did not actively support the British war effort, neither did they try to obstruct it.
Although the MQM had formed the government with Nawaz, the political tensions between liberalism and conservatism erupted into conflict by renegade factions in 1992.
Although the act was passed, there were no significant effects in which investigations were done on rape victims.
Although the government has enacted a few measures to counter any problems, abuses remain.
Although the loans were hurriedly repaid, Nawaz's reputation was severely damaged.
Although the pact was never fully implemented, its signing ushered in a period of co-operation between the Congress and the League.
Although the party initially supported social conservatism, in recent years, the party's political ideology and platform has become more liberally conservative.
Although the party was formed after the partition of India, most of its leaders had favoured a united India, had opposed the partition of India and the creation of Pakistan.
Although the political deadlock posed by Maulana Noorani was neutralised after Noorani's death, Musharraf yet had to face the opposition from ARD led by Benazir Bhutto of the PPP.
Although the radio sector has not seen similar growth, independent radio channels are numerous and considered very important sources of information - especially in the rural areas.
Although the relief column eventually reached Poonch, the siege could not be lifted.
Although the two countries have linguistic and cultural ties, the size of India–Pakistan trade is very small relative to the size of their economies and the fact that they share a land border.
Although the two forces had previously faced off in the First Kashmir War during the late 1940s, that engagement was very limited in scale compared to the 1965 conflict.
Although the violence focused on the provincial capital, Dacca, it also affected all parts of East Pakistan.
Although there were reports of unconfirmed media blackout of Sharif-aligned conservative media, no restrictions were imposed on the liberal/libertarian news media.
Although these local books were made more affordable to the public, these reforms stirred controversy.
Although these refugees were to be repatriated following agreement of the 1988 Geneva Accords, the vast majority have remained in Pakistan due to ongoing instability in Afghanistan.
Although they do not name Nawaz Sharif or his younger brother Shehbaz Sharif, they link in-laws of Shehbaz Sharif and children of Nawaz Sharif to numerous offshore companies.
Although women play an active role in Pakistan's economy, their contribution has been grossly underreported in some censuses and surveys.
Aman ki Asha is a joint venture and campaign between The Times of India and the Jang Group started in 2010 calling for mutual peace and development of diplomatic and cultural relations.
Amanullah Khan moved to England and there NLF was renamed Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF).
Ambassador Robert Oakley further influenced on the project, showing growing concerns of the U.S. on the agreement.
Ambassador in an aviation crash, relations deteriorated quickly with upcoming Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif.
Ambassador to Pakistan James M. Langley was kept fully informed of political developments in the country.
Ambassador to Pakistan, Cameron Munter, told Radio Pakistan that "the attack that took place in Kabul a few days ago, that was the work of the Haqqani network.
Ambassador to the United Nations, George H. W. Bush, introduced a resolution in the UN Security Council calling for a cease-fire and the withdrawal of armed forces by India and Pakistan.
America's deference to India reflects its importance to counter China's influence in Asia.
American President Lyndon Johnson cultivated warm personal relations with Indian and Pakistani leaders, This policy had unintended negative consequences.
American goodwill towards Khan was evident by an elaborate state dinner held at Mount Vernon, and a ticker tape parade for Khan in New York City.
American historian Stanley Wolpert, giving a speech in honour of Jinnah in 1998, deemed him Pakistan's greatest leader.
American interest in Pakistan as an ally against the spread of communism primarily was focused on maintaining excellent ties with Pakistan's military establishment.
American military aide was concentrated in West Pakistan, with economic benefits were controlled by and almost exclusively used by West Pakistan.
American political scientist Rudolph Rummel puts total deaths at 1.5 million.
Amid agitation instigated by the right-wing alliance invited the military intervention in 1977 which suspended the post.
Amid criticism at the public level in Pakistan, Mirza was relieved from the post of the Governorship to East Bengal to Muhammad Shahabuddin in October 1954.
Amid economic challenges, Pakistan continues to seek U.S. cooperation in areas of financial assistance and regional stability.
Amid growing Kashmiri protests against Indian rule, in interviews Bhutto expressed support for the Kashmiri Muslim community.
Amid pressure by Fahd and US President Bill Clinton, the military court avoided a death sentence for Sharif.
Amid protest and civil disorder in Sindh Province following the imposition of Operation Clean-up, the IDA government lost control of the province.
Amid riots against the government of President Ayub Khan, in 1968 Zulfikar was arrested and imprisoned for three months, during which he wrote to Benazir to encourage her studies.
Amid the 2022 Pakistan floods, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his "heartfelt condolences to families of the victims".
Amidst popular outrage in East Pakistan, on 7 March 1971, Sheikh Mujib called the Bengalis to join the struggle for "Bangladesh".
Amin also notes that "Failure to visit a country in response to its invitations has hardly ever become the cause of long-term estrangement".
Amin argues that the basis of the Sino-Pak entente from its beginning has been "a mutual need to pool together resources to contain perceived Indian aspirations to hegemony over South Asia".
Amjad Farooqi was an alleged mastermind behind these attempts, and was killed by Pakistani forces in 2004 after an extensive manhunt.
Amnesty International has accused security forces in Indian-controlled Kashmir of exploiting an Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act that enables them to "hold prisoners without trial".
Amnesty International has also accused the Indian government of refusing to prosecute perpetrators of abuses in the region.
Amnesty International has called on India to "unequivocally condemn enforced disappearances" and to ensure that impartial investigations are conducted into mass graves in its Kashmir region.
Amnesty International published a document concerning the investigation of ISI over the murder of Saleem Shahzad.
Among Iran's contributions were 30 Huey cobra attack helicopters and $200 million in aid.
Among countries with a Muslim majority, Pakistan has the strictest anti-blasphemy laws.
Among his 12,000 verses of poetry, about 7,000 verses are in Persian.
Among his fellow students in Munich was Hans-Hasso von Veltheim, who later happened to visit Iqbal the day before Iqbal died.
Among the Indian contributors to the radio station's nationalistic programmes was Salil Chowdhury.
Among the killed was ANP's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly candidate, Haroon Bilour.
Among the most important of these are the Eighth (1985) and Seventeenth Amendments (2004), which changed the government from a parliamentary system to a semi-presidential system.
Among the problems facing Pakistan when Bhutto took the Premiership was soaring employment and high unemployment.
Among the raiders, there were many active Pakistani Army soldiers disguised as tribals.
Among the restive regions of the new nation was the North-West Frontier Province.
Among the three tiers of local government, Tehsil government is its second tier.
Among them notable struggles were the emergence of a worker-led court under Abdur Rehman in Kot Lakhpat.
Among these officers, Akbar was the senior, having been commissioned in 1920.
Among those at risk were Afghan women’s rights activists, who fled the Taliban's oppressive rule and now face deportation back to Afghanistan.
Among those who met with Jinnah to seek his return was Liaquat Ali Khan, who would be a major political associate of Jinnah in the years to come and the first prime minister of Pakistan.
Amongst those who passed out with him was Joyanto Nath Chaudhuri, who served as Chief of the Army Staff of India from 1962 to 1966 while Ayub was the president of Pakistan.
An ANP rally in Quetta was subject to a bomb blast on 13 July 2012.
An Ahmadi can be easily charged for profession of his faith or for ‘posing’ as a Muslim.
An August 2018 Gallup Pakistan survey found 52% of Pakistanis believed his tenure as Prime Minister would be better than the previous government.
An Indian national highway (NH 1) connecting Srinagar to Leh cuts through Kargil.
An Indian-Pakistani war seemed inevitable.
An agreement on the resumption of air communications between Afghanistan and Pakistan was reached on 2 March 1977, signaling improved relations.
An agreement was reached whereby both Sharif and Khan would step down.
An alliance of Islamic parties organized into Muslim United Front (MUF) to contest the 1987 state elections.
An anonymous interviewee told the BBC that he cannot remember an occasion in almost 10 years that he has felt threatened with regards to his sexuality in Pakistan.
An assessment by British Intelligence in 2000 into Al-Qaeda training camps in Afghanistan showed the ISI were playing an active role in some of them.
An attack by four militants on an Indian Army base on 18 September 2016, also known as the 2016 Uri attack, resulted in the death of 19 soldiers as well as the militants themselves.
An austerity drive and a number of welfare programs were also set up by the PTI government to create a social safety net under the party’s flagship Ehsaas Programme and Sehat Insaf Card.
An elected PMLN Sindh government in alliance with MQM was dismissed and President's rule was imposed.
An eminent lawyer who practised in the Bombay High Court until 1940 testified that Jinnah used to pray as an orthodox Sunni.
An estimated 10 million Bengali refugees fled to neighboring India, while 30 million were internally displaced.
An estimated 10,000 activists were imprisoned in Jammu, Punjab and Delhi, including Members of Parliament.
An estimated 100,000 deployed troops faced accusations of human rights abuses and large-scale civilian casualties.
An estimated 11 million people eventually migrated between the two parts of Punjab, and possibly 1 million perished in the inter-communal violence.
An estimated 20,000+ Hindus and Sikhs were killed overall.
An estimated 5,000 women are killed per year as a result of domestic violence, with many maimed or disabled.
An estimated 5,000 women are killed per year from domestic violence, with thousands of others maimed or disabled.
An estimated two million people came to see her speak at Iqbal Park, where she rallied against Zia's regime.
An example of the admiration and appreciation of Iran for Iqbal is that he received a place of honour in the pantheon of the Persian elegy writers.
An experimental treatment in London, funded by the Pakistani government, helped him recover by late 1984.
An important event during his premiership was the establishment of a National Bank in November 1949, and the installation of a paper currency mill in Karachi.
An injured Lt. Vikram Batra volunteered to reinforce the companies and was deployed as a platoon commander.
An oil refinery was established in Karachi.
An original copy of Form 45 is given to each polling agent present, as well as any independent election observers viewing the counting process.
An unconfirmed list was leaked online and some of the innocuous keywords on the list was subjected to ridicule by Pakistanis.
An unsuccessful attack was launched by 77 Parachute Brigade (Brig Atal) to capture Zoji La pass.
Ana-Luisa White, daughter of British industrialist Gordon White and later known as Sita, began her relationship with him in 1986, shortly after his breakup with Emma.
Analyst Ayesha Siddiqa said he appeared confused and reliant on a military that made key decisions without him.
Analysts believed that Nawaz's desire to maintain stability in Punjab led him to turn a blind eye towards groups operating there.
Ancient commentary on this passage suggests that those engaging in sodomy could be killed without permission from a high priest.
And at some stage proposed "idhar hum, udhar tum", meaning he should govern the West and Mujib should Govern the East.
And the Muslim League can succeed only on account of Jinnah.
And the State has not slackened its arrests of investigative journalists, which sometimes more closely resemble kidnappings.
And then he was appointed as commander of the 105th Independent Brigade that was deployed in LoC ceasefire region in Jammu and Kashmir in 1951–1952.
And when they live, they do so with dignity.
And, Bhutto began lobbying for the nuclear weapon's option.
And, Mujib was sent to military court where his case was headed by Judge Advocate General Branch's Brigadier-General Rahimuddin Khan.
Andrews, who was the sitting member of the National Assembly.
Animosity grew between the two siblings.
Announcing a new self-reliance program, Suhrawardy began building a massive military and launched a nuclear power program in the west in an attempt to legitimise his mandate in West Pakistan.
Another 90 soldiers were also given gallantry awards, most of them posthumously, confirming Pakistan's role in the episode.
Another Amendment (Seventeenth) in 2004 continued this shift, but in 2010, the Eighteenth amendment reduced presidential powers, returning the government to a parliamentary republic.
Another Gallup Pakistan survey, conducted after his vote-of-no confidence, found 57% of respondents were happy about his removal from office, while 43% were angry.
Another UN-sponsored cease-fire left borders unchanged, but Pakistan's vulnerability had again been exposed.
Another consequence of the 2002 regulations was that most of these were hurriedly enacted by President Musharraf before the new government took office.
Another deal in 2015 includes Russia to invest $2bn in project of constructing north–south gas pipeline, first phase of which is expected to conclude by Dec 2017.
Another difference came when Khan also intensified policies to make the country a parliamentary democracy and federal republic.
Another gathering of at least 100,000 supporters occurred in Karachi on 25 December 2011.
Another grandson, Yousaf, who is a party worker of the PTI, was also declared ineligible for submitting fake documents to the Election Commission.
Another greater problem can be vigilante policing and killings by Islamist and terrorist groups.
Another grounds for India's rejection of the limited plebiscite was that it wanted Indian troops to remain in Kashmir for "security purposes", but would not allow Pakistani troops the same.
Another major Pakistani political party, the Pakistan Peoples Party, also said that "thousands" of soldiers and irregulars died.
Another man had his eyes pulled out and his body hung on a tree.
Another negative consequence of the war was growing resentment against the Pakistani government in East Pakistan (present day Bangladesh), particularly for West Pakistan's obsession with Kashmir.
Another scandal arose as a consequence of disclosure by Pakistani nuclear physicist Abdul Qadeer Khan.
Another significant amendment was the second amendment which declared Ahmadis to be non-Muslims.
Another step that Bhutto took was to democratise Pakistan's Civil Service.
Another such alleged massacre occurred on 6 January 1993 in the town of Sopore.
Another woman member, Mrs. Najma Andrews, was elected on a reserved seat for minorities after the death of her husband R.M.
Anti-Indian protests started in all 10 districts of the Kashmir Valley.
Anti-corruption drives in the police led to the conviction of officers found to be corrupt.
Anwar, carried out a bombardment of the Indian Navy's radar station coastal town of Dwarka, which was 320 kilometres (200 mi) south of the Pakistani port of Karachi.
Any criticism of the regime was seen as a threat to national security.
Any person born in Pakistan since 13 April 1951 automatically receives Pakistani citizenship by birth except if they are the child of a foreign diplomat or enemy alien.
Any re-appropriation within the sanctioned budget can be done by the Chief Election Commissioner without making any reference to the Finance Division.
Anywhere from 70–250 besieged people were killed during the operation, which carried on for 275 hours before Pakistan army troops were ordered to move in in order to stop the violence.
Apart from Karachi, Sindh was largely overlooked by PTI during much of its election campaign, and this is reflected in the results.
Apart from Urdu, he is also recognised as a leading Persian poet and one of the foremost Islamic philosophers of the modern era.
Apart from soldiers, it was estimated that 15,000 Bengali civilians were also made prisoners of war.
Apart from this, the most notable was the hijacking of Indian Airlines Flight IC 814 en route New Delhi from Kathmandu, Nepal.
Appeal against its decisions lie to the Shariat Appellate Bench of the Supreme Court, consisting of three Muslim judges of the Supreme Court and two Ulema, appointed by the President.
Appeal against its decisions lies to the Shariat Appellate Bench of the Supreme Court, consisting of 3 Muslim judges of the Supreme Court and 2 Ulema, appointed by the President.
Appeals for clemency arrived from many heads of state by 24 February 1979 when the next court hearing began, but Zia dismissed them as "trade union activity" among politicians.
Appeals from special courts go to high courts except for labour and traffic courts, which have their own forums for appeal.
Appeals from the tribunals go to the Supreme Court.
Appointed by the president, the Mohtasib holds office for four years; the term cannot be extended or renewed.
Appointing a new cabinet, Bhutto appointed Lieutenant-General Gul Hasan as Commander-in-Chief of the Pakistan Army in 20 December 1971.
Arab News said that after his 2022 ouster, Hameed was widely believed to have advised him as PTI openly criticised the army and its senior leadership.
Area adjacent to point 5140, namely and Area Rocky and Black tooth were captured by 1 Naga by 22 June.
Area three pimples consisted of the Knoll, Lone Hill and Three Pimples.
Area three pimples was captured on 29 June.
Arif Alvi remained the only PTI officeholder in a high government position.
Armed rebellion started in the Poonch district at the beginning of October 1947.
Army officers thought the government's acceptance of UN mediation and ceasefire was weak and squandered an opportunity to capture the entirety of Kashmir.
Around 1.3 million Afghans are registered refugees in Pakistan and 880,000 more have legal status to remain, according to the latest United Nations figures.
Around 1900 personnel were lost, while 1413 servicemen were captured by Indian forces in Dacca.
Around 2,000 far-right protesters led by Sunni Tehreek staged a sit-in at D-Chowk in front of the parliament in Islamabad on 27 March 2016, causing a partial shutdown of the capital.
Around 400 women jumped into wells in Mirpur committing suicide to escape from being abducted.
Around 90% of the Pakistani households are headed by men and most female-headed households belong to the poor strata of the society.
Around September 1994, the Taliban movement captured the Afghan city of Kandahar and began its long conquest with help from Pakistan.
Around ninety criminal charges had been brought against him under Zia's regime, so on arrival, Murtaza was arrested and held for eight months in solitary confinement.
Around the same time, the PPP's popularity began to decrease after the disqualification of Yusuf Raza Gillani in 2012.
Around this time, Sheikh Abdullah fell out with the Indian government and lost the support of his colleageues in his cabinet.
Around this time, he became closer to Liaquat Ali Khan and began formatting political relations with the politicians of the Muslim League.
Around this time, the MoD, led by General Ayub Khan, began to see the serious interservice rivalry between the General Headquarters staff and the Naval Headquarters staff.
Arraigned before the Lahore High Court, Bhutto was denied a lower court appeal level.
Article 1 substituted the name "Parliament" for the more Islamic term Majlis-e-Shoora.
Article 17 (2) of the Constitution provides every citizen with the right to form or be a member of a political party.
Article 222–229 of the Constitution of Pakistan forbids the candidate from joining the membership of National Assembly and the provincial assemblies simultaneously.
Article 243 has been a contentious issue as well.
Article 34 of the Constitution emphasizes full participation of women in national life and states that "Steps shall be taken to ensure full participation of women in all spheres of national life".
Article 370 was drafted in the Indian constitution granting special autonomous status to the state of Jammu and Kashmir, as per Instrument of Accession.
Article 50 of the Constitution clearly states that the Parliament of Pakistan consists of the President and two Houses known as the National Assembly and the Senate.
Article 50 of the Constitution provides that the Parliament of Pakistan shall consist of president and the two houses known as the National Assembly and the Senate.
Article 50 of the Constitution provides that the Parliament shall consist of the president and the two houses known as the National Assembly and the Senate.
Articles 192 to 203 of the Constitution of Pakistan outline the constitution of the courts, appointment of the judges, their oath of office, and jurisdiction of the high courts.
As Commonwealth citizens, they are eligible to vote and stand for public office in the UK.
As Defence Secretary, he oversaw the military efforts in the first war with India in 1947, as well as witnessing the failed secession in Balochistan by Khan of Kalat.
As India trespassed Pakistan's air space, the incidents escalated the tension between India and Pakistan starting the 2019 India–Pakistan border standoff and skirmishes.
As Musharraf was forced out from power, Asif Zardari of PPP became president after a close presidential elections in 2008.
As a bowler, Khan learned reverse swing from Sarfraz Nawaz and later taught it to Wasim Akram and Waqar Younis.
As a boy, Jinnah lived for a time in Bombay with an aunt and may have attended the Gokal Das Tej Primary School there, later on studying at the Cathedral and John Connon School.
As a consequence, India focussed on enhancing communication and coordination within and among the tri-services of the Indian Armed Forces.
As a consequence, the public outcry in India against the peace declaration transformed into a wave of sympathy for the ruling Indian National Congress.
As a cricketer, he captained the Pakistan national cricket team to victory in the 1992 Cricket World Cup.
As a lawyer, Jinnah gained fame for his skilled handling of the 1908 "Caucus Case".
As a newly born nation with trouble in planning the economy, Khan asked the U.S. for economic and moral support to enable it to stand on its feet.
As a result a coalition government was formed by Shehbaz Sharif and PML-N.
As a result of globalisation, increasing liberalisation trends and advancing social tolerance, private gay parties in Lahore have been increasing for a number of years.
As a result of operation, MQM claimed 67 of its workers had been killed by the Sindh Rangers while 150 went missing and more than 5,000 were placed behind bars.
As a result of the 18th constitutional amendment, the Islamabad High Court was established in 2010.
As a result of the 1970s election, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, a charismatic democratic socialist, became President (1971–1974) and later Prime Minister in 1974.
As a result of the 1993 general elections Benazir Bhutto secured a plurality and formed a government after hand-picking a president.
As a result of the conflict, a further eight to ten million people fled the country to seek refuge in India.
As a result of the election, PTI backed candidates formed the largest group in the new parliament but did not constitute a simple majority.
As a result of the operation, MQM claimed that 67 of its workers had been killed by the Sindh Rangers, while 150 were missing and more than 5,000 were imprisoned.
As a result of the police trying to stop the rally, 100 people were injured.
As a result of the war, East Pakistan became an independent country, Bangladesh, as the world's fourth most populous Muslim state on 16 December 1971.
As a result of their discussions, it was agreed that the Pakistani authorities would drop all charges of corruption against both Bhutto and her husband.
As a result of this vote, his term was extended to 2007.
As a result, Gohar Ali Khan was made PTI chairman, Shibli Faraz was made PTI head in the Senate and Omar Ayub Khan was made candidate for Prime Minister.
As a result, Pakistan stood politically divided.
As a result, for the first time in human history, a World Constituent Assembly convened to draft and adopt a Constitution for the Federation of Earth.
As a result, the Indian government decided to support the creation of a separate state for ethnic Bengalis by supporting the Mukti Bahini.
As a result, the United States requested a temporary ceasefire to allow it to evacuate its citizens in Lahore.
As a result, travel across the boundary was almost entirely halted, and the Pashtun tribes living under the British rule began to orient themselves eastward in the direction of the Indian railways.
As a sign of improving ties, Russian forces arrived in Pakistan on 23 September 2016 to participate in joint military exercises.
As a young boy, Bhutto moved to Worli Seaface in Bombay, where he studied at the Cathedral and John Connon School and later at St. Xavier's College, Mumbai.
As chief minister, Nawaz stressed welfare and development activities and the maintenance of law and order.
As dissatisfaction with Sharif's government grew, the PPP began to restore the support it had lost during Bhutto's premiership.
As early as 2005, Western criticism against Pakistan grew and many European and American political correspondents criticized Pakistan at the public level.
As early as 28 April 1971, the Indian Cabinet had asked General Manekshaw (Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee) to "Go into East Pakistan".
As envisaged by the nation's founding father, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, Pakistan is a nation-state, constitutionally a democratic parliamentary republic.
As fighting grew between the occupation army and the Bengali Mukti Bahini, an estimated 10 million Bengalis sought refuge in the Indian states of Assam and West Bengal.
As he had previously agreed with Bhutto, Musharraf then retired as army chief and was sworn in as Pakistan's civilian president.
As he was transferred to a cell in Rawalpindi central jail, his family appealed on his behalf, leading to a Supreme Court hearing in May.
As his health got worse, he took longer and longer rest breaks in the private wing of Government House in Karachi, where only he, Fatima and the servants were allowed.
As in most of the parliamentary democracies, a head of state's duties are mostly ceremonial.
As international pressure mounted, the Pakistani government agreed to release her, placing her on a flight to Geneva in January 1984.
As it turned out, it was not Sharif's decision to make.
As it was the height of the Vietnam War, the United States' show of force was seen as a sign of support for the beleaguered West Pakistan Armed Forces.
As long as I live, I will continue the movement to achieve rights through social media.
As many Arab countries were allied with both the United States and Pakistan, it was easy for Kissinger to encourage them to participate.
As many PPP members became increasingly dissatisfied with Bhutto during the 1990s, they referred to her brother Mir Murtaza, still in exile, as Zulfikar's true heir.
As many as 939 candidates contested the election for 189 seats, while the remaining seats were filled unopposed.
As of 2002, 96% of surveyed individuals reported corruption issues with electrical utility officials during the past year.
As of 2009, Pakistan stood as the largest contributor of troops to United Nations peacekeeping missions in the world, and was followed by Bangladesh and India.
As of 2010, the literacy rate of females in Pakistan was at 39.6 percent compared to that of males at 67.7 percent.
As of 2011, the camouflage pattern of the brown and black BDU was issued and is worn by the officers and the army troops in their times of deployments.
As of 2014 the Pakistani ambassador to Argentina, Imtiaz Ahmad was accredited to Uruguay.
As of 2017 his net worth is over ₨1 billion.
As of 2017, Pakistan's judiciary is suffering from a backlog of two million cases, with lawsuits taking an average of nearly ten years to resolve.
As of 2018, he owned five dogs, including Motu at his Bani Gala estate.
As of 2018, the Pakistani state was using Islamist militants to crush Balochi separatists.
As of 2018, the trend of Vani is decreased very much, allowing more young girls to live their childhood freely.
As of 2019[update], 25 amendments have been made to the Constitution.
As of 2022, most terrorist activities in Pakistan have been concentrated in the provinces of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan.
As of 2023, there were at least 53 people in custody across Pakistan on blasphemy charges.
As of 2024, India holds the territorially advantageous position.
As of 2025, Pakistan’s legal system was overwhelmed by more than two million pending cases.
As of 2025, he is one of eleven players to do so, and his 75-Test achievement is the third-fastest ever.
As of 2025, no one has been held accountable.
As of 2025[update], Pakistan does not recognize Israel and its ties with India remain frozen since 2019.
As of 30 August, it has been reported that the government of India is considering sending relief aid to Pakistan.
As of 30 September 2024, the ISI is headed by Lt. Gen. Asim Malik.
As of December 2022[update], the current Chief of Army Staff is Field Marshal Asim Munir, who was appointed to the position on 29 November 2022.
As of November 2023, the dams fund was Rs17.86 billion.
As of at least early 2024, survey data continues to show high public approval in Pakistan for China.
As of current formation, Yahya Afridi is tenuring as the Chief Justice of Pakistan, having been appointed on 26 October 2024.
As of current, the supreme court has 10 law clerks for the 2016–17 year.
As of current, there are two justices are on the ad hoc appointment that are from the Federal Sharia Court.
As of the 2025 reforms, the Pakistan Army is commanded by the Chief of Defence Forces (CDF), a position held concurrently by the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), who is typically a four-star general.
As part of Shimla Agreement, India sought to make sure that Pakistan would take steps to recognize Bangladesh.
As part of broader punitive measures, the Attari–Wagah border has been closed, effectively cutting off overland trade and further straining bilateral ties.
As part of his investment policies, Bhutto established the National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC) in July 1973, with an initial government investment of 100 million PRs.
As part of the constitutional crises, around 123 National Assembly members loyal to Khan resigned.
As part of the ongoing Kashmir conflict, Pakistan is alleged to be backing separatist militias.
As part of the science policy, they established the Pakistan Science Foundation in 1973 and helped establish the Pakistan Academy of Letters in 1976.
As part of this process, aspiring candidates would engage in debates and undergo primaries to secure a party ticket for contesting Provincial Assembly or National Assembly seats.
As per reports from local human rights organizations, a minimum of 65 transgender women have lost their lives in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province since 2015.
As per research study of Khurshid, Gillani, Hashmi; Pakistani school textbooks are discriminatory towards female representation in quantity and status.
As president, Bhutto faced mounting challenges on both internal and foreign fronts.
As president, Khan controversially appointed General Musa Khan to replace him as commander-in-chief, superseding decorated senior officers such as Generals Adam Khan, Sher Ali Khan Pataudi and M.A.
As president, Zardari called for a United Nations investigation into his wife's assassination.
As prime minister, Bhutto made groundbreaking efforts to enhance the education system, founding the Allama Iqbal Medical College in 1975.
As prime minister, her attempts at reform were stifled by conservative and Islamist forces within the country, including President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and the Pakistani military.
As relations between the two countries deteriorated following the return of the Taliban to power in Afghanistan, Pakistan has since stepped up its efforts to expel Afghan refugees from its territory.
As the Indian 14th Infantry Division was diverted to hunt for paratroopers, the Pakistan Air Force found the road filled with transport, and destroyed many vehicles.
As the Indian Eastern Command attacked the Pakistan Eastern Command, IAF rapidly destroyed the small air contingent in East Pakistan and put the Dacca airfield out of commission.
As the Indian counter-attacks picked up momentum, Pakistani prime minister Nawaz Sharif flew to meet US President Bill Clinton on 4 July to obtain support from the United States.
As the USSR had rebuffed capitalist Pakistan and aligned itself with Pakistan's rivals, the country's policy crafters found that maintaining friendly relations with both superpowers was impossible.
As the War in North-West Pakistan continued, there have been frequent threats against journalists.
As the academicians listened carefully, Bhutto stated, "Look, we're going to have the bomb".
As the comprehensive Constitution reinstated in 1973, the post was reestablished with more central powers as the constitution provided a parliamentary system with President of Pakistan as figurehead.
As the elections approached, the country faced a rise in attacks by militants.
As the fighting intensified, the Pakistani version of events found little backing on the world stage.
As the operation was fully underway, about 250 artillery guns were brought in to clear the infiltrators in the posts that were in the line-of-sight.
As the seat of government is in Islamabad, "Islamabad" is commonly used as a metonym for the federal government.
As the war progressed, media coverage of the conflict was more intense in India than in Pakistan.
As the war progressed, the IAF continued to battle the PAF over conflict zones, but the number of sorties flown by the PAF decreased day–by–day.
As was customary for newly commissioned British Indian Army officers, he was initially attached for a year to the second battalion of the Cameronians (Scottish Rifles).
As with other disputed territories, each government issues maps depicting their claims in Kashmir territory, regardless of actual control.
Asghar Khan and Khyber Khan were considered among the likely successors to President Ayub Khan during the collapse of his regime.
Asghar Khan declined, stating he had no interest in politics.
Asghar Khan led protests calling for Bhutto's release, which ultimately led to his freedom and grew so close to Bhutto that many saw him as a potential successor.
Asghar Khan recalls Bhutto asking him to join his party, the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP).
Ashok Swain, Professor of Peace and Conflict Research at Uppsala University, Sweden, wrote that his challenges and accusations against the military are unique in Pakistan's history.
Ashuganj was heavy defended by the Pakistani forces and the following battle resulted in heavy casualties on both sides.
Asia Bibi, a Christian farm laborer, was beaten by a mob and arrested for blasphemy in June 2009 after being accused of insulting the Prophet Muhammad during an argument.
Asif Ali Zardari and Nawaz Sharif announced sending a formal request or joint charge sheet that he step down, and impeach him through parliamentary process upon refusal.
Asif Ali Zardari is currently the president of Pakistan (since 2024).
Asif Ali Zardari is the 14th and current president, having assumed the presidency on 10 March 2024.
Asif Ali Zardari was the 11th President of Pakistan.
Asif's statement, made via his official social media account, drew strong reactions from relevant institutions.
Asked about two companies at a similar address, he said he had no link and added that two houses in the same neighbourhood share the address.
Asma Jahangir and Hina Jilani, prominent human rights lawyers and founders of the first all woman law firm in Pakistan, AGHS.
Asma Jahangir didn’t just practice law—she fought for lives.
Asma Jahangir was a pioneering human rights lawyer and fearless advocate for the marginalized in Pakistan, known for her unwavering commitment to justice, democracy, and gender equality.
Asma Jahangir, a Pakistani lawyer and human rights advocate, reportedly stated: "The military rulers are doing their best to erode the independence of the judiciary.
Asma Nabeel, the writer of the show, consulted Sid for guidance on transgender questions.
Assessing her legacy, William Dalrymple wrote in The Guardian that "it's wrong for the West simply to mourn Benazir Bhutto as a martyred democrat since her legacy was far murkier and more complex".
Assisted by Luis Ayala, the secretary-general of the Socialist International, in 2006 Bhutto and Sharif began a process of reconciliation.
At 03:30 on 1 September 1965, the entire Chumb area came under massive artillery bombardment as Pakistan commenced Operation Grand Slam.
At 17, Yousafzai became the youngest recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize and the first Nobel Peace Prize winner from Pakistan.
At 23.59 hrs on 1 January 1949, a United Nations-mediated ceasefire came into effect, bring the war to an end.
At 2:50 am on 13 October, Musharraf addressed the nation with a recorded message.
At 35 years old, she was the youngest elected leader in the Islamic world, the world's youngest prime minister, and the youngest female prime minister ever elected.
At Forman, Musharraf chose mathematics as a major in which he excelled academically, but later developed an interest in economics.
At Harvard, Bhutto majored in comparative government and graduated cum laude with a Bachelor of Arts in 1973.
At Jinnah's request, Liaquat discussed the return with a large number of Muslim politicians and confirmed his recommendation to Jinnah.
At OUP, Diaries of Field Marshal Mohammad Ayub Khan, 1966–1972 was edited and annotated by American historian Craig Baxter.
At Oxford, she led a campaign calling for the university to give her father an honorary degree; she gained the support of her father's old tutor, the historian Hugh Trevor-Roper.
At Pakistan's request, Interpol issued notices—but not arrest warrants—for Bhutto and her husband.
At a PTI rally in Swabi, Marwat made controversial remarks, which prompted multiple internal complaints and led to the revocation of his basic membership.
At a UN General Assembly emergency session, Pakistan abstained from condemning Russia, with him calling for de-escalation and respect for international law.
At a meeting of the Partition Council, Khan had rejected an offer from Vallabhbhai Patel regarding Kashmir and Hyderabad State.
At a meeting of the military top brass, Yahya Khan declared: "Kill 3 million of them and the rest will eat out of our hands".
At a seminar in Karachi, Pakistani journalists agreed that while the Indian government had taken the press and the people into its confidence, Pakistan had not.
At approximately 9 years and 179 days in total, Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan Muslim League (N) has been the longest-serving prime minister for a non-consecutive term.
At first, resistance was spontaneous and disorganized, and was not expected to be prolonged.
At her father's insistence, she remained in Oxford to study for a one-year postgraduate degree, reading international law and diplomacy; at this point she attended St Catherine's College, Oxford.
At his direction, I have taken the command as the temporary Head of the Republic.
At independence, Pakistan had radio stations in Dhaka, Lahore, and Peshawar.
At least 100,971 Afghans were detained between 1 January and 8 November 2025, compared with 9,066 during the same period in 2024.
At least 146 people were involved in the attack.
At least 200 people were killed in the clashes between security forces and demonstrators.
At least 27 suspects were presented before an anti-terrorism court.
At least 50 people were killed, with some reports of the deaths reaching as high as 280.
At least 68 people were killed, mostly Pakistani civilians but also some Indian security personnel and civilians.
At least 89 Pakistanis were extrajudicially killed over blasphemy accusations from 1947 to 2021.
At least as of 2010, the attacks have increased each year.
At least six protesters were killed and 200 were injured when police unsuccessfully tried to disperse the sit-in, the protest spread nationwide, and the minister Zahid Hamid was forced to resign.
At one point, Walker described Musharraf: "A capable, articulate and extremely personable officer, who made a valuable impact at RCDS.
At that point her daughter, Benazir Bhutto, became acting head of the party while Nusrat technically remained its chairman and was referred to as such as late as September 1983.
At that session, Jinnah told the delegates that "A constitutional war has been declared on Great Britain.
At the 1920 session of the Congress in Nagpur, Jinnah was shouted down by the delegates, who passed Gandhi's proposal, pledging satyagraha until India was independent.
At the Academy, General Musharraf formed a deep friendship with General Srilal Weerasooriya, who went on to become the 15th Commander of the Sri Lankan Army.
At the Astana Summit on 9 June 2017, Pakistan became a full member of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO).
At the age of 20, Jinnah began his practice in Bombay, the only Muslim barrister in the city.
At the age of 34, he was promoted to Brigadier, then the youngest Brigadier of Pakistan.
At the beginning of the war, the Pakistani Army had both a numerical advantage in tanks, and better equipment overall.
At the conclusion of oral argument, the case is submitted for the final judgements where cases are decided by majority vote of the justices.
At the deputation in England, Khan made close study of organising the political parties and would soon return to his country with Jinnah.
At the end of the 1950s, Iranians published the complete Persian works.
At the end of the talks, participants issued a statement that the constitution would not be forced on any unwilling parts of India.
At the end of the war, the Warsaw Pact countries were among the first to recognize Bangladesh.
At the end of this venture, the Pakistani forces stood down and agreed to abide by the terms of the ceasefire in full.
At the event, the Pakistani official highlighted the country’s advantages in high-yield bitcoin mining and its potential as a hub for AI data infrastructure.
At the first session of the Parliament at the Ayub Hall, the martial law, imposed in 1958, was revoked.
At the funeral, Nusrat—who had the early stages of Alzheimer's disease—also blamed Bhutto for her brother's death.
At the international level Pakistan and Jordan have similar views such as the Israel/Palestine issue.
At the meeting, Bhutto slowly discussed the recent war and the country's future, emphasising the great mortal danger the country faced.
At the most critical moment in our history we failed to check the limitless ambitions of individuals with dubious antecedents and to thwart their selfish and irresponsible behaviour.
At the national level, the people of Pakistan elect a bicameral legislature, the Parliament of Pakistan.
At the outbreak of war in 1965, Pakistan had about 15 armoured cavalry regiments, each with about 50 tanks divided into three squadrons.
At the provincial level, it was voted to power in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
At the public circle, Sharif assigned blame for the political/diplomatic disaster on General Musharraf, and Musharraf placing the blame on Prime Minister Sharif.
At the rally, activists from the Islami Jamiat-e-Talaba, the student wing of Jamaat-e-Islami, restrained him inside a building.
At the request of the Saudi monarch, Sharif was released from prison after a year and exiled to Saudi Arabia; he was also disqualified from holding public office.
At the same [time] Pakistan will never compromise on its sovereignty and independence.
At the same time the JUI was distrustful of Zia's close ties with the Jamaat-e-Islami and joined the anti-Zia and PPP-led Movement for the Restoration of Democracy (MRD).
At the same time there were many Pakistanis who despised her, disliking her popularity, her ties to Western nations, and her modernising agenda.
At the same time, Moscow will support Islamabad's bid to join BRICS, says Russian deputy prime minister.
At the same time, it also assisted in establishing relationships with other East Asian countries.
At the same time, many scholars in Iran have recognised the importance of Iqbal's poetry in inspiring and sustaining the Iranian Revolution of 1979.
At the same time, the United States and United Kingdom refused to supply India with sophisticated weaponry which further strained the relations between the West and India.
At the same time, the strategic convergence of the United States and India has also brought greater pressure on Pakistani diplomacy.
At the time of 2022–2023 Pakistani economic crisis, China was the only country that continued to provide loans.
At the time of his birth, Musharraf's family lived in a large home that belonged to his father's family for many years called Nehar Wali Haveli, which means "House Next to the Canal".
At the time of his joining, he was the tenth ranking officer in terms of seniority with service number PA-010.
At the time of partition, Pakistan included East Bengal, a noncontiguous territory separated from the rest of the country by India.
At the time of surrender only a few countries had provided diplomatic recognition to the new nation.
At the time of the attack, the Taj Mahal had been camouflaged with lots of twigs and leaves and draped with burlap, because its marble glowed prominently in the moonlight.
At the time of the discovery of these attacks, COAS of Indian Army Gen V. P. Malik was on a visit to Poland and was receiving information regarding the discoveries.
At the time of the partition of India, Maharaja Hari Singh, the ruler of the state, preferred to remain independent and did not want to join either the Dominion of India or the Dominion of Pakistan.
At the time, Pakistan served as a geostrategic position for United States military bases since it bordered the Soviet Union and China.
At the urging of the military and president, Nawaz agreed the solve the conflict amicably but remained determined to oust Alishah.
At this meeting, Khan was among those who attended this conference, and recommending the new goals for the party.
At this time, Ali Khan met Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru to sign the Liaquat-Nehru Pact in 1950.
At times there have been claims of foreigners getting very close to Pakistani political leaderships and deep state dispensations and have had possible indirect influential roles.
Athletes with disabilities have raised particular concerns about inadequate consideration of their needs.
Atif was sentenced to death in 2006 by an Anti Terrorism Court.
Atiya would later publish their correspondence.
Attack was launched by 1 Bihar on 29 June and with the assistance of Air force and artillery, the peak was captured on 7 July.
Attacks against Shia Muslims, who make up between 5–20% of Pakistani Muslims, have also been carried out by terrorist organizations such as the TTP and LeJ.
Attempting to end stagflation Sharif launched a program of privatisation and economic liberalisation.
Attempting to legitimise his presidency Musharraf held a controversial referendum in 2002, which allowed the extension of his presidential term to five years.
Attempting to maintain his control over the princely state, Hari Singh deployed his troops to check on the tribal advances but his troops failed to halt the advancing tribes towards the valley.
Attempts to restart dialogue between the two nations were given a major boost by the February 1999 meeting of both Prime Ministers in Lahore and their signing of three agreements.
Attiq Ahmed, the public relations officer of Punjab Prisons said on 20 April that Saad Rizvi had been released.
Attlee and his Secretary of State for India, Lord Frederick Pethick-Lawrence, immediately ordered a review of the Indian situation.
Aurat March is International Women's Day women's procession walk organized in various cities of Pakistan including Lahore, Hyderabad, Karachi and Islamabad.
Authored by Justice Ayesha Malik, the ruling dismissed FBR's petition to justify same-day recovery notices under Section 140 of the Income Tax Ordinance.
Authorities also planted rumours that he was under investigation for embezzlement and tax irregularities.
Authorities claimed that the assassin had been a teenage boy from South Waziristan.
Authorities sometimes exert control over media content through unofficial “guidance” to newspaper editors on placement of stories or topics than may be covered.
Ayala believed that this was a prerequisite for ensuring Pakistan's transition back to democratic elections.
Ayesha Malik, is the senior judge from Lahore High Court (LHC).
Ayub Khan apologised for the incident when he visited the Soviet Union five years later.
Ayub Khan began his diary in September 1966 and ended his recordings in October 1972 due to his failing health.
Ayub Khan blamed Bhutto for starting the conflict, while the armed forces became increasingly involved in the war.
Ayub Khan combined the offices of president and prime minister, becoming both the head of state and government.
Ayub Khan could not politically survive in the aftermath of the 1965 war with India and fell from the presidency after surrendering presidential power to Army Commander General Yahya in 1969.
Ayub Khan died of a heart attack on 19 April 1974 at his villa near Islamabad at age 66.
Ayub Khan disdained civilian politicians, whose factional infighting had for years prevented the adoption of a constitution.
Ayub Khan filled more and more civil administrative positions with army officers, increasing the military's influence over the bureaucracy.
Ayub Khan refused accelerating the programme, and famously said: "if we [Pakistan] ever need the [atom] bomb, we [Pakistan] will buy it off the shelf".
Ayub Khan tried to quell the revolt by making concessions to opposition groups including the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) and the Awami League (AL), but demonstrations continued.
Ayub Khan wanted his diary to be edited by his close associate Altaf Gauhar, but after Ayub Khan's death, the six-year-long diary was entrusted to Oxford University Press (OUP) to edit and publish.
Ayub Khan was admitted to the Royal Military College, Sandhurst, in 1926.
Ayub Khan was elected president for the next five years and decided to pay his first state visit to the United States with his wife and also daughter Begum Naseem Aurangzeb in July 1961.
Ayub Khan was fluent in Urdu, Pashto, English, and his native Hindko language.
Ayub Khan won the elections and was re-elected for a second term.
Ayub Khan's Ghandhara Industries, Sharif owned Ittefaq Foundry, National Bank of Pakistan and Habib Bank Limited were also nationalised.
Ayub Khan's presidency started in 1958 when he overthrew President Iskander Mirza in a coup d'état, and ended in 1969 when he resigned amid mass protests and strikes across the country.
Ayub Khan's son, Gohar Ayub Khan, launched attacks on Fatima Jinnah supporters.
Ayub Khan, then president of Pakistan, endorsed the agreement to convene a World Constituent Assembly.
Ayub and Shastri agreed to exchange prisoners of war and withdraw respective forces to pre-war boundaries.
Ayub dispatched the military unit to enter in presidential palace on the midnight of 26–27 October 1958 and placed him in an airplane to exile in England.
Ayub dispatched the military unit to enter the presidential palace on midnight of 26–27 October 1958 and placed him in an airplane to be exiled to England.
Ayub introduced new curricula and textbooks for universities and schools.
Ayub prioritized nuclear power generation over the use of nuclear technology for military purposes.
Ayub's daughter Nasim did not enter politics and married Miangul Aurangzeb, the Wali of Swat.
Ayub's papers of promotion were approved, and he was appointed the first native commander-in-chief of the Pakistan Army on 17 January 1951 by Prime Minister Ali Khan.
Azad Kashmir's strong pro-Pakistan allegiances and a relatively smaller population are suggested as reasons.
Aziz opposed Operation Gibraltar, fearing the economical turmoil that would jolt the country's economy, but was in turn opposed by his own senior bureaucrats.
Aziz proved to be extremely capable in running the government; under his leadership economic growth reached to a maximum level, which further stabilised Musharraf's presidency.
Aziz swiftly, quietly and quickly undermined the elements seeking to undermine Musharraf, which became a factor in Musharraf's trust in him.
BBC News reported that Khem Lata Wukhloo, who was a leader of the Congress party at the time, admitted the widespread rigging in Kashmir.
BS-17, are classified to be filled by way of promotion or transfer and by direct recruitment under share fixed for each category.
Back in 2018, the telegram channel "Militarist" reported that Pakistan had finalized a contract for the purchase of 54 SU-35 fighters, however, this information was not confirmed.
Back in Pakistan, she agreed to an arranged marriage; her mother selected Asif Ali Zardari as a suitable husband.
Backed by Pakistani paramilitary forces, Pashtun Mehsud tribals invaded Kashmir in October 1947 under the code name "Operation Gulmarg" to seize Kashmir.
Backed by a loose coalition of conservatives, Nawaz was elected as the chief minister of Punjab in 1985 and re-elected after the end of martial law in 1988.
Baglihar Dam issue was a new issue raised by Pakistan in 2005.
Bakshi Mohammad implemented all the measures of the '1952 Delhi Agreement'.
Balochistan (11), Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (26), Punjab (66) and Sindh (29) under Article 106 of the Constitution.
Balochistan is the only province in which no party regularly gains a clear majority, and the provincial assembly is usually split between Baloch nationalist parties.
Balochistan was the first province where these polls were held.
Balochistan's Home Minister Sarfraz Bugti announced on 25 March 2016 that they had arrested an Indian naval intelligence officer working for Research and Analysis Wing (RAW).
Balraj Puri in his journal article about Jinnah suggests that the Muslim League president, after the 1937 vote, turned to the idea of partition in "sheer desperation".
Bangladesh government figures state that Pakistani forces aided by collaborators killed three million people, raped 200,000 women and displaced millions of others.
Bangladesh sought admission to the UN with most voting in its favor.
Bangladesh was created as a separate state with India's support and India emerged as a clear regional power in South Asia.
Bangladesh was divided into eleven sectors in July, each with a commander chosen from defected officers of the Pakistani army who joined the Mukti Bahini to lead guerrilla operations.
Bangladeshi conventional forces attacked border outposts.
Banned from train travel due to delays caused by these gatherings, Bhutto's last visit to Multan marked a turning point.
Bans on religious gatherings are also reportedly enforced.
Bapsi Sidhwa is one of Pakistan's most prominent English fiction writers.
Barring an odd constituency, all victories of the Congress were in the Jammu and Ladakh regions, while NC swept the Kashmir Valley.
Based on the National Action Plan, the government made 32,347 arrests in 28,826 operations conducted across the country from 24 December 2014 to 25 March 2015.
Based on the results, the FPSC shortlists the candidates and sends the list to the ISI who conduct the initial background checks.
Basic democrats were 80,000 in number (40,000 from each East and West Pakistan).
Basic, enshrined principles of PPP include "Islam [as] our Faith.
Batra led the final assault on this point, rescuing Capt.
Because of his popularity, he received the nickname "Lion of the Punjab".
Because of lack of knowledge and education on this topic, the health of sex workers is at risk.
Because of the act, a person in Pakistan was punishable by either death or imprisoned up to 10 to 25 years.
Because of the action of the Congress in endorsing Gandhi's campaign, Jinnah resigned from it, leaving all positions except in the Muslim League.
Before 1947, there was a tendency for Muslim women in Punjab to vote for the Muslim League while their menfolk supported the Unionist Party.
Before 1986, only 14 cases of blasphemy were reported.
Before 2002, the electronic media was entirely dominated by state-owned institutions like Pakistan Television Corporation and Pakistan Broadcasting Corporation.
Before 2021, the appointment process of the Director-General followed no formal protocol other than verbal discussion between the Prime Minister and the head of the army.
Before Tilak unsuccessfully represented himself at trial, he engaged Jinnah in an attempt to secure his release on bail.
Before being elevated to Foreign Minister, Bhutto directed funds for key research in nuclear weapons and related science.
Before his arrival, he published an article praising the friendship on Pakistani newspapers like Daily Jang.
Before leaving India, the British ministers stated that they intended to inaugurate an interim government even if one of the major groups was unwilling to participate.
Before military operations are undertaken, little preparation is made for the predictable increase in displaced peoples in order to avoid attracting the attention of opposing forces.
Before signing this document, officers of the Pakistani army were trained in the United States.
Before the 18th Amendment to the constitution in 2010, the President was quite powerful.
Before the 1970s, nuclear deterrence was well-established under the government of Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy, but it was entirely peaceful and dedicated to civilian power needs.
Before the Partition of British India, the Lahore Resolution initially envisaged separate Muslim-majority states in British India's eastern and northwestern zones.
Before the beginning of the operation, all foreign journalists were systematically deported from East Pakistan.
Before the conference, Bhutto and his colleagues thoroughly prepared, considering that the Arabs had not succeeded in regaining territory lost in the 1967 war with Israel.
Before the elections could take place General Zia died in a mysterious plane crash on 17 August 1988.
Before the elections, his name was barred from the media, and TIME reported that constituency boundaries were redrawn to allegedly benefit his opponents.
Before the marriage, the groom will make heavy financial demands on the bride's family as a condition of marrying their daughter.
Before the official declaration of war between the two countries, Indian army had already been attacking the territory along the border with East Pakistan.
Before the operation, between January and March, Sharif was briefed about the operation in three separate meetings.
Before the presidential system in 1960, seven prime ministers had served between 1947 until martial law in 1958.
Before the terrorists could reach the main disputed site, they were shot down by Indian security forces.
Before the third martial law in 1977, Pakistan had been under martial law for nearly 13 years and saw the wars with India which led to the secession of East Pakistan.
Before the vote, 123 members of the PTI resigned from the National Assembly.
Before this, no term or translation existed to cover the whole transgender spectrum in Urdu.
Beg made it clear to Bhutto that the military would not tolerate her interference in their control of the defence and foreign affairs.
Begum Mahmooda Salim Khan was Pakistan's first woman minister and member of the Cabinet of President General Ayub Khan.
Begum Nusrat Bhutto wife of Prime Minister Zulfikhar Ali Bhutto, led the Pakistani delegation to the United Nations' first women's conference in 1975.
Begum Ra'ana Liaquat Ali Khan (1905–1990) was a women's rights activists.
Begum Shaista Ikramullah was the first woman elected member of the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan.
Begum would almost always interview influential politicians, e.g.
Being located in the northernmost region of South Asia, Pakistan's culture is somewhat similar to that of North India, especially the northwest.
Belarus and Pakistan have also signed agreements on trade-economic cooperation and investments protection.
Belarus' Minsk Tractor Works has played a key role in supplying tractor to Pakistan and establishing the tractor assembly plant in Pakistan.
Benazir Bhutto became widely unpopular across the country and was ousted in October 1996.
Benazir Bhutto continued her pressure on India, pushing India on to take defensive positions on its nuclear programme.
Benazir Bhutto enjoyed strong relations with the Pakistan Armed Forces, and president who was hand-picked by her did not question her authority.
Benazir Bhutto expanded the authoritative rights of Police Combatant Force and the provisional governments that tackled the local opposition aggressively.
Benazir Bhutto failed to revert the controversial Hudood Ordinance – a contentious presidential ordinance which suppressed women's rights, making them subordinate to men.
Benazir Bhutto mounted pressure on President Ghulam Ishaq Khan, who dismissed the IDA government on 18 April 1993.
Benazir Bhutto was embroiled in a number of cases being pursued by Nawaz Sharif's government in 1997.
Benazir Bhutto was nominated as Prime Minister of Pakistan and took the oath of the Office on 2 December 1988.
Benazir Bhutto was sworn in as the first woman Prime Minister of Pakistan on 2 December 1988.
Benazir Bhutto was the first female Prime Minister of Pakistan (1988)(1991) and the first woman elected to head a Muslim country.
Benazir Bhutto, an opposition leader in the parliament and former prime minister, called the Kargil War "Pakistan's greatest blunder".
Benazir Bhutto[a] (21 June 1953 – 27 December 2007) was a Pakistani politician and stateswoman who served as the 11th prime minister of Pakistan from 1988 to 1990, and again from 1993 to 1996.
Benazir also appointed Admiral Saeed Mohammad Khan as Chief of Naval Staff; General Abbas Khattak as Chief of Air Staff.
Benazir and Nusrat were then imprisoned for six months, before being released and placed under house arrest for a further six months.
Benazir attributed this economic inequality to be a result of ongoing and continuous illegal Bangladeshi immigration.
Benazir initially attended the Lady Jennings Nursery School in Karachi.
Benazir nevertheless maintained that her father had always wanted her to become a politician.
Benazir put the country's nuclear arsenal programme on high-alert made emergency preparations, and ordered the Pakistani armed forces to remain on high-alert.
Benazir would be assassinated in 2007 and since then the party has been controlled by her husband, Asif Ali Zardari as well as her son, Bilawal Bhutto Zardari.
Benazir's first language was English; as a child she spoke Urdu less frequently although she was fluent, and barely spoke the local Sindhi language.
Bengal and Punjab would also vote, both on the question of which assembly to join, and on the partition.
Bengali leader, Sir Khawaja Nazimuddin succeeded as the governor general of Pakistan.
Bengali regular forces also attacked border outposts in Mymensingh, Comilla and Sylhet, but the results were mixed.
Bengali speakers constituted over 56% of Pakistan's population.
Bengalis were a majority in the newly created state of Pakistan and this was a painful reality for him".
Besides changes in other Articles in the Constitution the significant Article 58(2)(b) was added, according to which the president acquired discretionary powers to dissolves the National Assembly.
Besides the Patton, there were about 200 M4 Shermans re-armed with 76 mm guns, 150 M24 Chaffee light tank and a few independent squadrons of M36B1 tank destroyers.
Besides the state channel Radio Pakistan, a number of private radios carry independent journalistic content and news.
Besides this it has advocated for rule of law and constitutionalism as part of its political alliance, the Tehreek Tahafuz Ayin.
Besides, the progressive laws helped improve their participation in legislative and executive positions over the years.
Besides, there exist revenue courts, operating under the West Pakistan Land Revenue Act 1967.
Better electronic media capacity was needed in the future and thus the market for electronic media was liberalised.
Between 10 and 13 March, Pakistan International Airlines canceled all its international routes to urgently fly "government passengers" to Dacca.
Between 1947 and 1958, there were no direct elections held in Pakistan at the national level.
Between 1947 and 2000, a policy of restricting Hindus prior enlisting in the Pakistan Army was in practice until the policy was reversed by the federal government.
Between 1964 and 1966, Pakistan's defence spending rose from 4.82% to 9.86% of GDP, putting a tremendous strain on its economy.
Between 1971 and 1976, Khan played English county cricket for Worcestershire and also represented Dawood Industries[g] and Pakistan International Airlines.
Between 1974 and 1976, many of Bhutto's original members left due to political differences or natural causes.
Between 1986 and 2007, Pakistani authorities charged 647 people with blasphemy offences.
Between 1987 and 2017 at least 1,500 people were charged with blasphemy and at least 75 people involved in accusations of blasphemy were killed in Pakistan according to the Center for Social Justice.
Between 1987 and February 2021, at least 1,855 individuals were charged under Pakistan's blasphemy laws, with Muslims constituting most of those accused.
Between 1995 and 1998, Lieutenant-General Musharraf was the corps commander of I Strike Corps (CC-1) stationed in Mangla, Mangla Military District.
Between 2002 and 2010, Pakistan received approximately $18 billion in military and economic aid from the United States.
Between 2002 and 2013, Pakistan received $26 billion in economic and military aid and sales of military equipment.
Between 2004 and 2007, Aziz approved many projects that did not require Musharraf's permission.
Between 2011 and 2013, Nawaz and Imran Khan began to engage each other in a bitter feud.
Between 2022 and 2023, the average inflation rate stood at 30 per cent, significantly impacting the affordability of daily essentials such as food and transportation for the poor and middle-class.
Between 4 and 12 July 17 Jat and 2 Naga continued to attack peaks adjacent to 4875 and had success.
Between 8 and 14 December, India captured an 800 km2 stretch of the Karakoram range in the Northern region of Ladakh in the Battle of Turtuk under the command of Col Udai Singh.
Between January and March 1989, she authorised cold tests of nuclear weaponry, without fissionable material, although this did not satisfy the military authorities.
Beyond that their own position starts getting undermined because the military is after all is a mirror image of the civil society from which it is drawn.
Bhargava stated that Bhutto was "dedicated and devout in her religious principles but modern and emancipated in her behavior and outlook".
Bhutto abandoned Ayub Khan's state capitalism policies and introduced socialist policies in a move to reduce income inequality.
Bhutto addressed the court for four days, delivering his statements without the aid of notes.
Bhutto advocated the creation of an expanded economically and politically stable middle class in Pakistan, believing that this was needed in order to sustain a stable democratic state.
Bhutto aided the Syrian and Egyptian Air Force by sending the Pakistan Air Force and Navy's top fighter pilots, where they flew combat missions against Israel.
Bhutto aimed to prevent East Pakistan's secession through dialogue and sought to create a loose confederation within the framework of one Pakistan.
Bhutto also campaigned for Zardari's release from prison.
Bhutto also disapproved the capitalist policies of Field Marshal Ayub Khan, and instead introduced the socialist economics policies while working to prevent any further division of the country.
Bhutto also disbanded the Pakistan Marines, a new service in the navy, after failing to produce any effective results during the conflict.
Bhutto also established the Port Qasim, Pakistan Steel Mills, the Heavy Mechanical Complex (HMC), and several cement factories.
Bhutto also faces criticism for human-rights abuses in Baluchistan.
Bhutto also formed the Hamoodur Rahman Commission, to carry out the inquiry and causes of the war, under the Bengali Chief Justice Hamoodur Rahman.
Bhutto also introduced a policy of extensive nationalisation under his socialist agenda.
Bhutto also made a state visit to the U.S. in 1995, where she convinced Congress to repeal sanctions that they had imposed on Pakistan over its nuclear weapons programme in 1990.
Bhutto also offered him 50,000, which Mujib declined.
Bhutto also promised to hold a future summit for the peaceful resolution of the Kashmir dispute and pledged to recognise Bangladesh.
Bhutto also ratcheted up her policy on Indian Kashmir, rallying against India.
Bhutto also refused to accept Rahman's Six Points.
Bhutto also strengthened relations with its most important partner communist China, and repeatedly visited Beijing for mutual trade and international political co-operation the two countries.
Bhutto also took a hard stance against militant Islamism.
Bhutto also visited Poland in 1962, establishing diplomatic relations and fostering mutual cooperation, reaching out to the Polish community in Pakistan.
Bhutto also wanted to replace Mahbub ul Haq as a finance minister, but again the military opposed her.
Bhutto always resisted privatisation of United Bank Limited Pakistan (UBL), but its management sent the recommendation for the privatisation which dismayed the labour union.
Bhutto and Daud exchanged official visits to pressure Afghanistan to accept the Durand Line as the permanent border.
Bhutto and Khalizad also traveled to a luncheon in Aspen, Colorado to meet with prominent U.S. political and business leaders.
Bhutto and Musharraf chaired a secret meeting with Israeli officials who traveled to the US especially for the meeting.
Bhutto and her mother remained in Pakistan, although they were repeatedly detained for short periods.
Bhutto and her mother, Nusrat Bhutto, took control of the PPP and led the country's Movement for the Restoration of Democracy (MRD).
Bhutto and the PPP launched a legal challenge against this latter stipulation.
Bhutto and the PPP was persecuted on the charges of murder of political opponents.
Bhutto announced on 15 February that his party would not attend the National Assembly unless there was 'some amount of reciprocity' from the Awami League.
Bhutto appointed Chiefs of Staff in the Pakistan Armed Forces, reporting directly to the prime minister.
Bhutto asked for a share in government saying Udhar tum, idhar hum, meaning "You in the east, I in the west".
Bhutto became a trusted ally and advisor of Ayub Khan, rising in influence and power despite his youth and relative inexperience.
Bhutto became the first female prime minister in a Muslim-majority country, as well as Pakistan's second nationally elected prime minister.
Bhutto became the foreign minister in 1963, advocating for Operation Gibraltar in Kashmir, leading to the 1965 war with India.
Bhutto became the leader of the opposition.
Bhutto began criticizing Ayub Khan openly and resigned in June 1966.
Bhutto believed in an independent Foreign Policy, distinct from Western influence, particularly the United States' sphere of influence.
Bhutto biographer Brooke Allen stating that it was "pre-eminently a political performance" written for a Western audience, with the intent of "seducing Western opinion and opinion-makers".
Bhutto biographer Brooke Allen thought that her time at Oxford was "almost certainly the happiest, most carefree time of her life".
Bhutto biographer G. S. Bhargava thought that in the context of Pakistani politics, she could "pass" for a social democrat.
Bhutto called upon Organization of Islamic Conference in 1974 order to bring Muslim world together.
Bhutto challenged the constitutionality of Leghari's decision, taking the issue to the Supreme Court, but they ruled in agreement with the president in January in a 6–1 ruling.
Bhutto claimed that she terminated support for Sikh separatists active in India, something which Zia had encouraged to destabilise Indian control in their half of the Punjab.
Bhutto claimed that this was politically motivated.
Bhutto contributed to negotiating trade and military agreements between Pakistan and China, fostering collaboration on various military and industrial projects.
Bhutto described the main problem facing her country as the clash between "moderation and extremism", and was pessimistic about her safety.
Bhutto did not disagree but saw an advantage in establishing another parallel programme, the uranium enrichment programme under Abdul Qadeer Khan.
Bhutto did not want him to join the PPP, fearing him as a potential challenger to her leadership of the party, however his mother Nusrat campaigned for him, helping him win the election.
Bhutto disapproved of the hijacking, believing that it strengthened Zia's hand; that she was punished for it may have exacerbated tensions with her brothers.
Bhutto disliked Khan's hostile attitude toward her, but he had the backing of the military.
Bhutto dismissed the chiefs of the army, navy and the air force and ordered house arrest for General Yahya Khan and several of his collaborators.
Bhutto embraced non-alignment, making Pakistan an influential member in non-aligned organisations.
Bhutto emphasized on his last part of the speech: "I will take back Kashmir, all of it, and I will not leave behind a single inch of it because like the other provinces, it belongs to Pakistan.
Bhutto envisioned Pakistan's new policy as benefiting economic relations rather than the military alliance, which also affected Japan's impact on Pakistan.
Bhutto established an atomic power development program and inaugurated the first Pakistani atomic reactor, built in collaboration with Canada in Karachi on 28 November.
Bhutto expressed concern that with mainstream politicians removed from Pakistan's political arena, the vacuum would be filled by Islamist extremists.
Bhutto faced accusations of masterminding the crime.
Bhutto faced mounting criticism and growing unpopularity during his term.
Bhutto feared a civil war, therefore, he sent his trusted companion, Mubashir Hassan.
Bhutto flew to New York roughly every three weeks to visit him.
Bhutto found it difficult adjusting to life in the United States.
Bhutto found it difficult to act effectively in the face of opposition from Nawaz, and also faced problems in her political stronghold of Sindh Province from her younger brother Murtaza Bhutto.
Bhutto had intelligence within the Army, and officers like Major-General Tajamül Hussain Malik remained loyal to him until the end.
Bhutto had named his economic policies Islamic Socialism or as he called "Mussawat-e Muhammadi".
Bhutto had to face the embargo and pressure from an American President who was completely against the political objectives that Bhutto had set out to accomplish.
Bhutto ignored the summons to travel to Switzerland to serve her sentence.
Bhutto imitated many of her father's mannerisms and his style of speech; the journalist Carla Hall referred to her having a "vaguely British accent".
Bhutto immediately appeared on PTV where he delivered an emotional speech to his shattered nation.
Bhutto immediately placed Yahya Khan under house arrest, brokered a ceasefire, and ordered the release of Mujib, who was being held prisoner by the Pakistan Army.
Bhutto implemented socialist economics while working to prevent any further division of the country.
Bhutto initially attempted to improve relations with neighbouring India, withdrawing Zia's offer of a no-war pact and announcing the 1972 Simla Agreement as the basis of future relations.
Bhutto initially blamed the killing on a conspiracy against her family; she suggested that President Leghari had been involved, in an act designed to destabilise her government.
Bhutto insisted that the PPP campaign separately from the MRD, and dropped its socialist platform in favour of economic Thatcherism and a commitment to the free market.
Bhutto is considered the main architect of the 1973 constitution as part of his vision to lead Pakistan toward parliamentary democracy.
Bhutto is credited with establishing the world-class Quaid-e-Azam University and Allama Iqbal Open University in Islamabad in 1974, along with founding Gomal University in Dera Ismail Khan in 1973.
Bhutto issued a statement on the tests and told the international press that she condemned the Indian nuclear tests.
Bhutto joined Ayub in Uzbekistan to negotiate a peace treaty with Indian prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri.
Bhutto later claimed that on her 1993 visit to North Korea, she secretly carried a computer CD containing nuclear data, although she subsequently retracted this claim.
Bhutto later went on to upgrade a number of dams and barrages built in Sindh Province.
Bhutto negotiated an oil-exploration agreement with the Soviet Union in 1961, which agreed to provide economic and technical aid to Pakistan.
Bhutto observed the conflict from abroad, describing it as "Pakistan's biggest blunder".
Bhutto often argued with Beg, Gul, and Khan over her desired policies, and—according to Allen—"won some battles but ultimately lost the war" against them.
Bhutto opposed the ultra-leftism concepts but was a strong proponent of left-wing politics, which the U.S. had opposed in Pakistan from the very start.
Bhutto ordered a crackdown on and deportation of illegal Bangladeshi immigrants.
Bhutto ordered the construction of a new residence in Islamabad; it covered 110 acres of ground and cost $50 million to construct.
Bhutto oversaw the creation of a women's division in the government, headed by a senior female civil servant, as well as a women's bank.
Bhutto pledged that she would take tough action on the powerful drug barons.
Bhutto privately attributed it to an act of God.
Bhutto promised price supports for agriculture, pledged a partnership between government and business, and campaigned strongly for the female vote.
Bhutto pursued a peace agreement, the Simla Agreement, with Indira Gandhi, the premier of India.
Bhutto realised he wanted an administrator who understood the scientific and economic needs of this technologically ambitious program.
Bhutto relented and agreed that Khan could be nominated as the PPP's presidential candidate.
Bhutto remains a complex and debated figure in Pakistan.
Bhutto requested that Musharraf bring in the British Scotland Yard or the United States' Federal Bureau of Investigation to investigate the crime, but he refused.
Bhutto responded with the use of Federal Security Force (FSF) and Police to control the situation as many activists of PNA were imprisoned.
Bhutto returned from eight years exile on 18 October.
Bhutto returned home on 18 December 1971.
Bhutto returned to Pakistan in October 2007, arriving in Karachi.
Bhutto signed the Sino-Pakistan Boundary Agreement on 2 March 1963, transferring 750 square kilometers of territory from Gilgit Baltistan to Chinese control.
Bhutto significantly transformed Pakistan's pro-West foreign policy.
Bhutto sought to improve Pakistan's ties with the Arab world and sided with the Arab world during the Arab-Israeli conflict.
Bhutto sought to improve the country's declining economy.
Bhutto sought to re-organize the Military of Pakistan and numerous officers who were responsible for Bengal's autocracies were fired from their services.
Bhutto stated that her party may join other opposition groups, including Sharif's.
Bhutto stated, "Pakistan will fight, fight for a thousand years.
Bhutto staunchly supported Beijing in the UN and the UNSC, while also maintaining connections with the United States.
Bhutto stayed in Dhaka on the night of 25 March and commented that Pakistan had been saved by the army before leaving on the 26th.
Bhutto strongly advocated empowering small farmers, asserting that a weak and demoralised farming community would jeopardise Pakistan's agricultural strength.
Bhutto strongly refused to accept an Awami League government and infamously threatened to "break the legs" of any elected PPP member who dared to attend the inaugural session of the National Assembly.
Bhutto successfully united parties for the 1973 constitution and pursued nuclear weapons, earning him the title of the father of Pakistan's nuclear program.
Bhutto supported the plan, but Ayub opposed it due to fears of Indian retaliation.
Bhutto therefore gained a supermajority in the Parliament.
Bhutto told the National Assembly on 14 July that he forged an equal agreement from an unequal beginning and that he did not compromise on the right of self-determination for Jammu and Kashmir.
Bhutto tried to resolve the issue, but Carter intentionally sabotaged the talks.
Bhutto tried to show he was still interested in that expensive route and was relieved when Kissinger persuaded the French to cancel the deal.
Bhutto understood that capturing land does not attract the same international attention as the plight of prisoners.
Bhutto unsuccessfully lobbied for the United States to impose economic sanctions on India.
Bhutto urged him to revise the Pressler Amendment and launch a campaign against extremism.
Bhutto utilised the Pakistani community of London to lobby and influence European governments to improve the rights of expatriate Pakistani communities in Europe.
Bhutto varyingly claimed that Shahnawaz had been murdered by his wife, Raehana, or had been killed on the orders of Zia.
Bhutto was Prime Minister at a time of great racial tension in Pakistan.
Bhutto was a client of Mossack Fonseca, whose customer records were disclosed in the Panama Papers leak.
Bhutto was a junior minister in Ayub Khan administration at the time of signing the Indus Waters Treaty with India in 1960 and was not part of the negotiating team.
Bhutto was a strong advocate of Afro-Asian Solidarity and had cemented ties with Afro-Asian and Islamic countries and by 1976 had emerged as the Leader of the Third World.
Bhutto was again prime minister, but this time had a weaker parliamentary mandate than she had had in 1988.
Bhutto was against this treaty due to yielding too much of water resources to India.
Bhutto was an economist by profession; therefore during her terms as prime minister, she herself took charge of the Ministry of Finance.
Bhutto was arrested again on 3 September and released on bail on 13 September.
Bhutto was arrested for these activities.
Bhutto was born at Pinto's Nursing Home on 21 June 1953 in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan.
Bhutto was committed to democracy and modernisation, and believed that the future of the Islamic world lay in the embrace of these processes.
Bhutto was devoted to her father and husband.
Bhutto was executed in 1979 after being convicted of authorising the murder of a political opponent in a controversial 4–3 split decision by the Supreme Court.
Bhutto was fatally injured; reports differ as to whether she was hit by bullets or by shrapnel from the explosion.
Bhutto was granted one week to prepare, issuing a comprehensive rejoinder to the charges, although Zia impeded its publication.
Bhutto was hanged in 1979 for the murder of a political opponent.
Bhutto was imprisoned in the Adiala Jail along with Mujib, where he was set to face the charges.
Bhutto was imprisoned on 16 September, and many PPP leaders, including Mubashir Hassan, were arrested and disqualified from contesting elections.
Bhutto was indignant when faced with sexism, and regarded herself as an ardent supporter of women's rights; however, Suvorova stated that she was "never a feminist in theory or practice".
Bhutto was released on 29 July and received a warm welcome from supporters in Larkana.
Bhutto was repeatedly imprisoned by Zia-ul-Haq's military government and self-exiled to Great Britain in 1984.
Bhutto was rushed to Rawalpindi General Hospital but was clinically dead on arrival and attempts at resuscitation were unsuccessful.
Bhutto was so angry with her mother's actions that she ousted her as co-chair of the PPP.
Bhutto was sworn in as the prime minister of the country on 14 August 1973, after securing 108 votes in a house of 146 members.
Bhutto was the country's first civilian chief martial law administrator since 1958, as well as the country's first civilian president.
Bhutto would have been aware that being married gave her an image of respectability which would improve her chances of being elected.
Bhutto's Science Advisor, Abdus Salam's office was also set up in Bhutto's prime minister secretariat.
Bhutto's Science Advisor, Mubashir Hassan, feared a possible coup and unsuccessfully attempted to reach an agreement with the PNA.
Bhutto's assassination led to the postponement of the elections to 18 February 2008.
Bhutto's clandestine initiatives modernised and expanded the atomic bomb programme after initiating missile system programs.
Bhutto's criticism of the final agreement created a major rift with Ayub.
Bhutto's departure from certain socialist policies greatly displeased his democratic socialist alliance and many in the Pakistan Peoples Party.
Bhutto's efforts undermined and dismantled the private-sector and conservative approach to political power in the country's political setup.
Bhutto's execution shocked much of the Muslim world.
Bhutto's first cabinet was the largest in Pakistan's history.
Bhutto's government carried out major reforms such as the re-designing of the country's infrastructure, the establishment of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee and the reorganisation of the military.
Bhutto's government implemented comprehensive labour reforms, introducing conditions on worker dismissals and establishing Labour Courts for swift grievance redressal.
Bhutto's government mandated the inclusion of Islamic and Pakistan studies in school curricula.
Bhutto's government was one of only three countries to recognise it as the legitimate Afghan government, a move that further distanced it from its Western allies.
Bhutto's hard-line stance on nuclear issues put the United States, particularly Carter who found it extremely difficult to counter Bhutto on Defensive position at the United Nations.
Bhutto's knowledge and intellectualism impressed Gandhi personally, making this agreement, with Pakistan paying a small price, one of Bhutto's most significant diplomatic successes.
Bhutto's legacy remains contentious, praised for nationalist and a secular internationalist agenda, yet criticised for economic challenges, political repression and human rights abuses.
Bhutto's legal team successfully secured his right to conduct his own defense before the Supreme Court.
Bhutto's nationalisation policies aimed to empower workers, giving them control over the means of production and protecting small businesses.
Bhutto's nationalisation programme lost its appeal towards the end of his government's term and the demand for denationalisation gained more currency.
Bhutto's policies were perceived as people-friendly but failed to yield long-lasting effects, and civil disorder against Bhutto began to escalate in 1977.
Bhutto's policy, and even as of today, the policy of Pakistan continues to state that "she will continue to fight for the honor and integrity of Pakistan.
Bhutto's second government found it extremely difficult to counter the second era of stagflation with Pressler amendment and the US financial and military embargo tightened its position.
Bhutto's socialist orientation irked the United States, concerned about losing Pakistan as an ally in the Cold War.
Bhutto's three-day state visit to Afghanistan in June 1976 was followed by Daud Khan's five-day visit to Pakistan in August 1976.
Bhutto's wife, Nusrat Bhutto, assembled a defense team, securing his release after ten days due to contradictory evidence.
Bhutto, a Pakistani nationalist and socialist, held distinctive views on the democracy required in Pakistan.
Bhutto, alleging bias, demanded a retrial, but the court refused.
Bhutto, frustrated by the failure of the resolution and the inaction of the United Nations, ripped up his speech and left the council.
Bhutto, known for his demagogic speeches, led the foreign ministry assertively, rapidly gaining national prominence.
Bhutto, on 7 January 1977 announced the holding of elections before time.
Bhutto, the founder of Pakistan's atomic bomb program, earned the title "Father of Nuclear Deterrence" due to his administration and aggressive leadership of this program.
Bhutto, with his scientist colleague Aziz Ahmed, thwarted US attempts to infiltrate the atomic bomb programme.
Bibi stated that she was tortured and raped by her brother-in-law, Jamal Khan.
Bibi was recast as guilty for having sexual intercourse outside of valid marriage and was sentenced to death because of this incident.
Biden responded by naming Pakistan and said that a stable regime needed to be established in the country.
Bihari Muslims, a community of citizens who migrated to East Bengal from the Indian state of Bihar during the partition of India, was particularly affected by Bangladeshi independence.
Bihari representatives in June 1971 claimed a higher figure of 500,000 killed by Bengalis.
Bilateral relations and mutually beneficial cooperation have progressed steadily ever since.
Bilateral relations have evolved from China's initial policy of neutrality to an extensive partnership driven primarily by Pakistan's strategic importance.
Bilateral trade between the two countries is US$800 million but they hope to increase this to US$2 billion.
Bilateral trade in 2010 totaled US$2.4 million per year and growing yearly.
Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, a Double Taxation Convention, and an Investment Agreement.
Bill Clinton tried to dissuade Pakistan prime minister Nawaz Sharif from nuclear brinkmanship, even threatening Pakistan of dire consequences.
Bilour was son of Bashir Ahmad Bilour who was also killed in a suicide bombing attack in December 2012.
Birkenhead in 1928 challenged Indians to come up with their own proposal for constitutional change for India; in response, the Congress convened a committee under the leadership of Motilal Nehru.
Blasphemy is a capital offence in Pakistan.
Blasphemy laws in Pakistan have faced criticism for being misused to target vulnerable individuals, often through online entrapment.
Bogra continued to serve as Prime Minister under Governor-General Sir Malik Ghulam.
Bokhari lodged a protest against the Kargil debacle and called for the court-martial of Musharraf, who Nawaz said acted alone.
Bolitho called this period "Jinnah's years of order and contemplation, wedged in between the time of early struggle, and the final storm of conquest".
Book banks were introduced in most institutions, and over 400,000 copies of textbooks were supplied to students.
Books and magazines can be imported freely, but are subject to censorship for objectionable sexual or religious content.
Border tensions between Afghanistan and Pakistan have escalated to an unprecedented degree following recent instances of violence along the border.
Born at Wazir Mansion in Karachi, Jinnah was trained as a barrister at Lincoln's Inn in London, England.
Born in Lahore, he graduated from Keble College, Oxford.
Born in Sindh and educated at the University of California, Berkeley and the University of Oxford, Bhutto trained as a barrister at Lincoln's Inn before entering politics.
Born in the North-West Frontier Province, Ayub Khan was educated from the Aligarh Muslim University and trained at the Royal Military College, Sandhurst.
Born into the upper-middle-class Sharif family in Lahore, Punjab, Nawaz is the son of Muhammad Sharif, the founder of Ittefaq and Sharif groups.
Bose offers a number of possible explanations for this.
Both Abdullah and Abbas were imprisoned.
Both Bangladesh and Pakistan are members of the Commonwealth.
Both Bhutto and Mujib continued political pressure on Khan's military government.
Both Bhutto and Sharif had residences in London, not far from one another.
Both General Zia-ul-Haq and General Rahimuddin Khan supported the declaration of a general amnesty in Balochistan to those willing to give up arms.
Both India and Pakistan are member states of the Commonwealth of Nations.
Both India and Pakistan have launched several mutual confidence-building measures (CBMs) to ease tensions between the two.
Both India and Pakistan were Commonwealth republics.
Both Indians and Pakistanis living in the UK fit under the category of British Asian.
Both Liaquat and Jinnah were determined to stop the riots and refugee problems and to set up an effective administrative system for the country.
Both Lockhart and Messervy were replaced in the course of war, and their successors Roy Bucher and Douglas Gracey tried to exercise restraint on their respective governments.
Both Malaysia and Singapore assured their support for Pakistan to join Asia–Europe Meeting, though Pakistan and India were not parties to the treaty until 2008.
Both Sharif and Bhutto attempted to remove the other from power, with Bhutto accusing Sharif of having rigged the election to become Chief Minister.
Both Sharif and General Musharraf held each other responsible for the actions in the Kargil sector, charging each other of lying and hiding details of the hostilities to the nation.
Both United States and Soviet Union sent invitation to Liaquat Ali Khan.
Both Yahya Khan and Bhutto flew to Dhaka and tried negotiations one more time in mid-March 1971, but they ultimately yielded no results.
Both actions made news headlines around the world.
Both agreed on the necessity for Pakistan to establish a nuclear deterrent against India.
Both are also members of the OIC (Organisation of Islamic Cooperation), as well as "the next eleven" and "D8".
Both are members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and the Commonwealth of Nations.
Both civilians and members of the armed forces can join the ISI.
Both countries are also working on Mechanism of Bilateral Consultations on Issues of Mutual Interest for Mexico and Pakistan.
Both countries enjoy close relations and links of mutual friendship and the cooperation has further strengthened.
Both countries established diplomatic relations before 1992 when the High Commissioner to Australia was cross-accredited as High Commissioner of Pakistan to Tonga (resident in Canberra).
Both countries established diplomatic relations in 1963 when Mr. S. M. Khan, Pakistan High Commissioner in Canada, had been cross-appointed concurrently as High Commissioner to Trinidad and Tobago.
Both countries established diplomatic relations on 10 November 1967.
Both countries established diplomatic relations on 19 January 1963.
Both countries established diplomatic relations on 2 April 1974 when Pakistan's first ambassador to the Central African Republic, Mr. Sha Ansani presented credentials to President Jean Bedel Bokassa.
Both countries established diplomatic relations on 23 October 1967.
Both countries established diplomatic relations on 25 April 1977.
Both countries established diplomatic relations on 6 July 1962.
Both countries had tested their nuclear capability in 1998, marking India's second nuclear test and Pakistan's first.
Both countries have generally pursued a bilateral policy that focuses to strengthen their alliance in all areas.
Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization.
Both countries signed an agreement to settle the disputed border through international arbitration by the International Court of Justice on 30 June 1965.
Both countries were on the silk route through which civilizational exchanges took place for centuries, Islamic missionaries that introduced Islam after 711 AD were from Syria.
Both factions of the JUI have a large network of madrassas and mosques that provide the main basis for its religious activism and politics.
Both factions of the JUI have frequently come together on a common platform to oppose American drone strikes in Pakistan's tribal areas, viewing it as a violation of Pakistan's sovereignty.
Both houses of the parliament have their own separate chambers; and in case of a joint session, the National Assembly chamber is used.
Both men saw the other as a rival to their respective positions.
Both men were opposed to the creation of Pakistan, and after the creation of Pakistan in 1947, they were imprisoned.
Both nations are members of the Developing 8 and Next Eleven countries.
Both nations blame the other for breaking the cease-fire agreement, claiming that they are firing in retaliation for attacks.
Both nations share close relations on the grounds of religion and politics.
Both of these were used for flying in supplies and arms from India.
Both officers are elected from within the ranks of the National Assembly and, by current convention, are usually members of the majority party.
Both sides claimed victory, but India had most to celebrate.
Both sides fought each other to a stalemate.
Both states are close allies and considered "strategic partners".
Both the Maldives and Pakistan are member states of the Commonwealth of Nations.
Both the Senate and the National Assembly can initiate and pass legislation except for finance bills.
Both the leaders said their alliance with the PTI is "unconditional".
Both the military and ISI, however, supported the development of material that could produce viable nuclear weaponry.
Both the military and government denied the allegations; the military called them "fabricated and malicious" while Sharif termed them "blatant lies".
Both the pro-Independence Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF) and the pro-Pakistan Islamist groups including JIJK mobilised the fast growing anti-Indian sentiments among the Kashmiri population.
Both urban and rural local government have two or three tiers in all provinces except Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, where councils are not identified as either urban or rural.
Botswana has diplomatic relations with Pakistan which is covered by the Botswanan Embassy in Beijing, China and an embassy located in Islamabad within the Republic of Yemen.
Brad Adams, the Asia director at Human Rights Watch said in 2006 "Although 'Azad' means 'free', the residents of Azad Kashmir are anything but free.
Brig Khan surrendered to the Indian forces a day later on 17 December.
British India was partitioned into two independent nations on 15 August 1947, the Union of India and Dominion of Pakistan.
British Indians and British Pakistanis, the largest and second-largest ethnic minorities living in the United Kingdom respectively, are said to have friendly relations with one another.
British Pakistani Christian Association chairman Wilson Chowdhry stated that "I am not surprised that Imran Khan's regime has caved in to extremists".
British commanding officers initially refused the entry of Pakistani troops into the conflict, citing the accession of the state to India.
British leaders including Mountbatten did not support the creation of Pakistan but failed to convince Jinnah.
British nationality law during this time was uncodified and did not have a standard set of regulations, relying instead on past precedent and common law.
British protected persons were treated as aliens in the United Kingdom, but both Indian British subjects and protected persons could be issued British Indian passports.
British rule in the Indian subcontinent ended in 1947 with the creation of new states: the dominions of Pakistan and India, as the successor states to British India.
British subject status was reformed under the British Nationality Act 1948.
British subject status was standardised as a common nationality across the Empire.
British subject/Commonwealth citizen status co-existed with the citizenship of each Commonwealth country.
British voters returned Clement Attlee and his Labour Party to government later in July.
Brown prevailed on the forces to declare accession to Pakistan.
Bucher was apparently successful in doing so in India, but Gracey yielded and let British officers be used in operational roles on the side of Pakistan.
Buddhist monks from the area of what is now Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region of Pakistan were involved in the Silk Road transmission of Buddhism to Han dynasty China.
Building a strong, personal correspondence with Jinnah, Iqbal was influential in convincing Jinnah to end his self-imposed exile in London, return to India and take charge of the League.
Built by the Mianwali Development Trust on land donated by locals, it aimed to tackle unemployment through technical and vocational education.
Business confidence in Pakistan reached a three-year high in May 2014 backed by increasing foreign reserves which crossed US$15 billion by mid-2014.
Businesses of PTI leaders who did not quit the party were sealed.
But Bose believes that a stronger explanation was that Pakistan had itself been a military-bureaucratic state for most of its history without stable democratic institutions.
But I am not a supporter of capital punishment.
But I think he was pressured by the United Nations and some countries.
But Pakistan's non-alignment is highly contested as it shows significant inclination towards China in all spheres, including politics.
But at Maratha Hill (in Munabao) – as the post has now been christened – the Indian company could barely manage to thwart the intense attack for 24 hours.
But decades later, the 1946 Calcutta Riots fractured the relationship between the Congress and the Muslim League beyond repair.
But he drove his points home—points chosen with exquisite selection—slow delivery, word by word.
But if you mean that I'm ordinary rich, yes, my father had three children studying at Harvard as undergraduates at the same time.
But in 1976 the court rejected Walji's claim that Jinnah was Sunni; effectively implying that he was a Shia.
But in recent years, "Islamabad has arguably lost some of its strategic significance in the West following the US/NATO withdrawal from Afghanistan".
But it was of no use as till then cable TV network was already introduced in urbanized cities, like Rawalpindi, Islamabad, Lahore and Karachi.
But most radio content is music and entertainment.
But no individual may hold the office for more than two consecutive terms.
But the Pakistani Taliban (TTP) attacks lead to growing tension between the Afghan Taliban government and Pakistan.
But the President also called for "greater Pak-U.S. cooperation".
But the Senate Standing Committee headed by Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (F) (JUI (F)) senator Abdul Ghafoor Haideri turned down the bill saying existing laws were enough to protect minorities.
But the bills passed by the Parliament during the State of Emergency, shall cease to be in force after the expiration of six months from the date Emergency is lifted.
But the bills passed by the Parliament during the state of emergency shall cease to be in force after the expiration of six months from the date that the emergency is lifted.
But the forces of destiny and the forces of history had thrust me forward, and I felt privileged and awed.
But the main thrust of the plan actually lies in agriculture, contrary to the image of CPEC as a massive industrial and transport undertaking, involving power plants and highways.
But the military government, at the request of opposition leader Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, refused to transfer power to the elected Parliament, causing the beginning of the Bangladesh Liberation War.
But the more serious-minded among them also realised that this is not possible, considering Kashmir's size and borders.
But the policy of Madrassah reforms, especially funding Darul Uloom Haqqania renowned for its links with Taliban and killers of Benazir Bhutto was criticised by many.
But there was one woman who contested and lost her deposit.
But this was not agreed to by Nehru, who stated that such "underhand dealing" would be very bad, as the matter was being decided by the UN.
But ties deteriorated after the United States asked Khan to send two combat divisions to support U.S. military operations in the Korean War.
But two of three vassal states that were subject to the suzerainty of Junagadh—Mangrol and Babariawad—declared their independence from Junagadh and acceded to India.
But we have been given a terrible bashing by the Western press and I ask you now to please get off our backs while we put our house in order.
But when the Pakistani Army cracked down upon the population, resistance grew.
But, Major Brown had already telegraphed Khan Abdul Qayyum Khan asking Pakistan to take over.
But, both Kissinger and Gandhi's aide Jayakar maintained, Gandhi did not respond to these proposals.
But, these figures may not include the actual figure, as recording of anti-trans violence is poor.
By 1 November, Gilgit-Baltistan had been annexed from the Dogra dynasty, and was made part of Pakistan after a brief provisional government.
By 1 October, the Cavalry regiment completed the task of arming the insurgent forces.
By 12 December, the Indian forces had secured the crossing points on the Meghna and had located several battalions across the river.
By 13 February 1971, the President Yahya announced that the National Assembly was to meet at Dhaka on 3 March 1971.
By 13 September, armed Pashtuns drifted into Lahore and Rawalpindi.
By 15 June, India had mobilised a huge portion of its army near the international border and Indian commanders were on order to be ready for crossing the International border.
By 18 March, some party members had defected and two coalition partners joined the opposition, causing him to lose his National Assembly majority.
By 1965, American and British analysts had recognised the two international groupings, CENTO and SEATO, and Pakistan's continued alliance with the West as being largely meaningless.
By 1974, Afghanistan covertly engaged in Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, causing increasing concern for Bhutto's government.
By 1974, exports exceeded one billion dollars, showing a 60% increase over the combined exports of East and West Pakistan before separation.
By 1976, Daud grew concerned about his country's overdependence on the Soviet Union and the rising insurgency.
By 1976, Nawaz also became a member of the Pakistan Muslim League (PML), a conservative party with deep roots in the Punjab province, contributing to the political landscape of the region.
By 1976, the state had been hijacked by groups and individuals trying to accumulate wealth by redistributing resources from public enterprises to private individuals.
By 1977, PAEC and KRL had constructed their uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing plants, and the selection for test sites at Chagai Hills was completed by the PAEC.
By 1977, he was playing in Kerry Packer's World Series Cricket.
By 1986 PAEC Chairman Munir Ahmad Khan had begun work on the 50 MW plutonium and tritium production reactor at Khushab, known as Khushab Reactor Complex, which became operational by 1998.
By 1990, the revelation of Midnight Jackal lessened President Khan's influence in national politics, government and the military.
By 1996, continuous large-scale corruption by the government of Benazir Bhutto had deteriorated the country's economy, which was nearing failure.
By 1996, their takings through these various deals were estimated at $1.5 billion.
By 2003–05, the department of army continued its policy by drastically downsizing the personnel from Punjab to 43–70%.
By 22 July 1947, the Muslim Conference started calling for the state's accession to Pakistan.
By 22 May 18 Grenadiers, 1 Naga and Garhwal under the command of Col Kushal Thakur had begun an assault on Tololing and were awaiting reinforcements.
By 29 March the crowd had shrunk to 700 protestors, and the protest ended on 30 March after the government promised not to amend the blasphemy laws.
By 5 July, several objectives were completed and major Pakistani commanders were killed.
By 6 July, all these forces completed their individual objectives and linked up.
By 7 December the Battle of Longewala was decisively won by India.
By 8 July the entire Tiger Hill feature was captured by 18 Grenadiers and 8 Sikh and Gen VP Malik addressed the media informing the world.
By 9 September, Jinnah had also developed pneumonia.
By August 2007, polls showed 64 per cent of Pakistanis did not want another Musharraf term.
By December 1939, Liaquat estimated that the League had three million two-anna members.
By July 1995, more than 1,800 people had been assassinated in Karachi.
By June and July 1951, Pakistan's relations with U.S. deteriorated further, with Nehru visiting the United States, pressuring Pakistan to recall her troops from Kashmir.
By November 1971, the Indian military fired artillery at Pakistani troops and even made several incursions into Pakistani territory.
By October 2025, Pakistan had deported or pressured over one million Afghans to return to Taliban-controlled Afghanistan, including many awaiting US resettlement after working with American forces.
By October, other stickers proclaimed Hang the Traitor in an apparent reference to Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.
By an act of parliament of 1997, the number of judges was fixed at 17.
By blocking the highway, they could cut off the only link between the Kashmir Valley and Ladakh.
By constitutional powers, the president promulgates ordinances and passes bills.
By early to mid December, the Himalayan passes would be closed by snow, limiting China's ability to intervene.
By general definition, the executive branch of government is the one that has sole authority and responsibility for the daily administration of the state bureaucracy.
By its constitution, the official name of Pakistan is the "Islamic Republic of Pakistan" as of 1956.
By last week of June, most of fire power was concentrated to the highest peak in the surrounding, Tiger Hill.
By law, general elections must be held within two months of the National Assembly completing its term.
By law, the consolidation of the count happens in front of the candidates or their nominated representatives, as well as any independent observers present.
By mid July, India had settled on a plan of attack.
By mid-July 2009, Pakistan's National Database and Registration Authority (NADRA) put the total of Internally Displaced People (IDPs) at just over 2m, while unofficial figures are as high as 3.5m.
By mid-June 1954, the number of arrests reached 1,051, including 33 assembly members and two Dhaka University professors.
By providing extensive coverage of the 2007 Lawyer's Movement's struggle to get the chief justice reinstated, the media played a significant role in mobilising civil society.
By some accounts Mountbatten had an understanding with Nehru that a referendum on the region's future would be held later.
By that time, Muhammad Ali Bogra had taken over as the Prime Minister.
By the 1970s, Japan completely lost its momentum in Pakistan as Pakistan followed a strict independent policy.
By the 1990s, Khan and Bhutto's government had also ultimately lost the currency war with the Indian Rupee which beat the value of Pakistan rupee for the first time in the 1970s.
By the Article 246th and Article 247th to the constitution, the Islamic Jirga (or Panchayat) system has become an institution for local governance.
By the constitution's Article 31, it is the country's duty to foster the Islamic way of life.
By the early 1950s, Iqbal became known among the intelligentsia of Iran.
By the early 2000s, 1,500 newspapers and journals existed in Pakistan.
By the early 20th century, the Pakistan Movement had emerged, demanding a separate nation for Indian Muslims carved out of the northwestern and northeastern regions.
By the end of 1968, Khan presented the Agartala Case which led to the arrests of many Awami League leaders, but was forced to withdraw it after a serious uprising in East Pakistan.
By the end of 1974, Bhutto had given final authorisation for a covert operation to train Afghan mujaheddin, ultimately proving successful.
By the end of 1978, these nationalist organisations were brutally quelled by Pakistan Armed Forces.
By the end of April 1971, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had asked the Indian Chief of Army Staff Gen Sam Manekshaw if he was ready to go to war with Pakistan.
By the end of August, Pakistan had made progress in areas such as Tithwal, Uri and Poonch.
By the end of December 1972, Salam returned to Pakistan with suitcases loaded with literature on the Manhattan Project.
By the end of Nawaz's second term, the economy was in turmoil.
By the end of October, Musharraf appointed many technocrats and bureaucrats in his Cabinet, including former Citibank executive Shaukat Aziz as Finance Minister and Abdul Sattar as Foreign Minister.
By the end of the 1960s, the Soviet Union emerged as the biggest supplier of military hardware to India.
By the end of the war, India had captured a larger quantity of territory than Pakistan.
By the first week of December, the conservative print media outlets in the country had published jihad related materials to boost the recruitment in the military.
By the mid-1990s, NDFC had a pool of resources amounting to US$878 million.
By the time Bhutto had assumed control of what remained of Pakistan, the nation was completely isolated, angered, and demoralised.
By the time Bhutto was ousted, this crash programme had fully matured in terms of technical development and scientific efforts.
By the time France's CEA cancelled the project, the PAEC had acquired 95% of the detailed plans of the plant and materials.
By the time he was deposed, the country was heading for financial default.
By the time of the Pakistan independence movement, popular opinion among Pashtuns was in support of joining the Dominion of Pakistan.
By the time proposals were finalized, Pakistan's forces in the East had surrendered and the war had ended, making the measures merely academic.
By the time that the Operation was officially completed, the government announced that 3,000 had been killed in Karachi, although the number may have been far larger.
By the time the United Nations intervened on September 22, Pakistan had suffered a clear defeat.
By then, the Congress had come around to the idea of partition.
By this point, the British government and the Indian National Congress had both accepted the idea of Pakistan, which came into existence on 14 August 1947.
By this stage of the war the front line began to stabilise as more Indian troops became available.
By this time the differences between the main parties to the conflict had already crystallised.
By this time, the Pakistani Army had used close to 80% of its ammunition.
By virtue of the eighth constitutional amendment imposed by Zia-ul-Haq, these laws were protected both from ordinary legislative modification and from judicial review.
By-elections (in Urdu call, Zimni elections) are held due to fill the vacant seat due to resignation, disqualification or death of a respective person.
By-elections for 28 seats (23 provincial and 5 national) have been delayed numerous times, with most of them now held on being 26 June 2008.
By-elections were held in Punjab, Pakistan on 17 July 2022 to elect 20 members of the Provincial Assembly of the Punjab.
C. Christine Fair notes that this was the beginning of Pakistan using irregular forces and "asymmetric warfare" to ensure plausible deniability, which has continued ever since.
CGS Lt. Gen. Aziz Khan (in Rawalpindi) as proof of the Pakistan Army's involvement in the infiltrations.
CIA chief Leon Panetta said the CIA had ruled out involving Pakistan in the operation, because it feared that "any effort to work with the Pakistanis could jeopardize the mission.
CIA's fake vaccination campaign in turned greatly harmed Pakistan polio vaccine drive in the tribal areas.
CNIC (One CNIC, One Vote) in Cape Town, South Africa, December 2014.
CNN reports that most Pakistanis believe the US involved in a plot against Imran Khan.
CSS exams are held every year in the entire country.
CSS exams have a reputation for a very low pass percentage.
Canada is represented through its High Commission in Islamabad and consulate in Karachi.
Candidates can choose six subjects of their own choice from many different options.
Capital and Western reforms initiated and built in 1947 were transformed and replaced with a socialist system throughout the 1970s.
Capitalising on West Pakistani fears of East Pakistani separatism, Bhutto demanded that Sheikh Mujibur Rahman form a coalition with the PPP.
Capt Batra's attack ensured an Indian victory at point 4875.
Carter also signed the finding in 1980 that allowed less than $50 million a year to go to the Mujahideen.
Carter intensified the embargo on Pakistan and exerted pressure through the United States Ambassador to Pakistan, Brigadier-General Henry Byroade.
Carter, an anti-socialist, tightened the embargo placed on Pakistan and put pressure on the government through the United States Ambassador to Pakistan, Brigadier-General Henry Byroade.
Cases are usually allotted by administrative orders of district and sessions judges.
Cases of rape, honor killing, murder, and forced marriages in backward areas are also reported.
Cases under the blasphemy law have also been registered against Muslims who have harassed non-Muslims.
Censorship during the Zia years was direct, concrete and dictatorial.
Central Government could not exercise its power to interfere in any other areas of governance of the state.
Central to this effort is a high-profile cryptocurrency partnership with World Liberty Financial (WLF), a cryptocurrency company in which Trump’s family reportedly holds a 60% stake.
Ceylon (modern-day Sri Lanka) saw the partition of Pakistan as an example for themselves and feared India might use its enhanced power against them in the future.
Chacha Nooruddin, known as Captain Chappal, gifted a pair of specially crafted Peshawari chappals to him for his 2015 wedding.
Chairing a secret seminar in January 1972, which came to be known as "Multan meeting", Bhutto rallied Pakistani scientists to build an atomic bomb for national survival.
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Michael Mullen called Pakistan's army chief Ashfaq Parvez Kayani at about 3 a.m. local time to inform him of the Abbottabad Operation.
Chapter three of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act prohibits discrimination against transgender people.
Chaudhry Muhammad Ali was the Prime Minister at that time.
Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain was elected the 21st Prime Minister of Pakistan on 29 June 2004 and obtained a vote of confidence from the National Assembly on 30 June 2004.
Chaudhry feels, like many others in country, that the media in Pakistan has become free and fair during the last decade.
Cheema's wife was arrested as she came to attend her husband's hearing.
Chicago-based Embark LLC was one of the international public-relations firms trying to land Musharraf as a highly paid keynote speaker.
Chief Justice Hamoodur Rahman also died of a cardiac arrest while in office.
Chief Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry commended this move by the senior PPP leadership, labeling it as "historic" in his noting remarks.
Chief Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry eventually presided over the three-judge bench (expanded with law experts from four provinces of Pakistan), while Minister of Law Babar Awan counseled Bhutto's case.
Chief Justice S. Anwarul Haq, despite his close ties to Zia, presided over the trial and even served as Acting President when Zia was abroad.
Chief Justice Sajjad Ali Shah was removed from office based on this case.
Chief of the Army Staff General Musa Khan held off launching Operation Grand Slam, waiting for President Ayub Khan's go ahead.
Children born before 18 April 2000 were entitled to citizenship by descent through their fathers only.
Children born overseas are automatically Pakistani citizens by descent if either parent is a citizen otherwise than by descent or is employed by the government of Pakistan.
China also has a consistent record of supporting Pakistan in regional issues.
China controlled the area what belonged to China.
China did not welcome the break-up of Pakistan's unity by the East Pakistani politicians, and effectively vetoed the membership of Bangladesh when it applied to the United Nations in 1972.
China had also become a foreign patron for Pakistan and had given Pakistan $60 million in development assistance in 1965.
China had also received strong warnings by the American and Soviet governments against expanding the scope of the conflict by intervening.
China had provided a $1 billion Chinese SAFE deposit and a roughly $1.4 billion commercial loan maturing in June 2023.
China has also provided technical and material support in the completion of the Chashma Nuclear Power Complex and plutonium reprocessing facility, which was built in the mid-1990s.
China has also stated that Aksai Chin is an integral part of China and does not recognise its inclusion in the Kashmir region.
China has generally supported Pakistan against India on Kashmir.
China has in turn provided extensive economic aid and political support to Pakistan.
China has lent Pakistan more than 2 billion US dollars to prop up its collapsing economy.
China has provided economic, technical, and military assistance to Pakistan; both sides regard each other as close strategic allies.
China has recently pledged to invest nearly 43 billion US dollars.
China has supplied blueprints to support Pakistan's nuclear program.
China instead threw its weight behind demands for an immediate ceasefire.
China is the largest investor in Pakistan's Gwadar Deep Sea Port, which is strategically located at the mouth of the Strait of Hormuz.
China objected to admitting Bangladesh on the grounds that two UN resolutions concerning Bangladesh, requiring the repatriation of Pakistani POWs and civilians, had not yet been implemented.
China provided economic and moral help and even threatened India on its conflicted border issues.
China reacted with great alarm when the prospects of Indian invasion of Pakistan and integration of Pakistan-administered Kashmir into their side of Kashmir, became imminent.
China reiterated its interest to end the political crisis in Pakistan after Imran Khan was ousted in April 2022.
China vetoed this as Pakistan was its key ally.
China was also among the last countries to recognize independent Bangladesh, refusing to do so until 31 August 1975.
China's repeated threats to intervene in the conflict supporting Pakistan increased pressure on the government to take an immediate decision to develop nuclear weapons.
China, Pakistan and Afghanistan have coordinated to increase regional stability.
China, a long-time ally of Pakistan, insisted on a pullout of forces to the pre-conflict positions along the LOC and settling border issues peacefully.
China, in turn, has supported Pakistan's position on the Kashmir conflict.
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang was the first world leader to visit Pakistan and congratulate Nawaz on his 2013 electoral victory.
Chinese citizens have been reported in similar polls as holding the third-most positive opinion of Pakistan's influence in the world, behind only Indonesia as well as Pakistan itself.
Choudhary Rahmat Ali published a pamphlet in 1933 advocating a state "Pakistan" in the Indus Valley, with other names given to Muslim-majority areas elsewhere in India.
Choudhri to the promotion to two-star rank, rear-admiral, in order to assume the navy command of the Pakistan Navy, but it was not until in 1953 when Admiral Choudhri took over the command.
Choudhri, replacing him with Vice-Admiral A.R.
Christian and Hindu leaders complained that they felt excluded from the county's political process, but the policy had strong support from Islamists.
Christopher Lee, who portrayed Jinnah, called his performance the best of his career.
Citing the eighth amendment of the Constitution, on 5 November, Leghari dismissed Bhutto's government on the grounds of corruption and incompetence.
Citizen journalism is emerging as a growing phenomenon and social media is being touted in Pakistan as an important tool that can be used to strengthen democracy.
Citizen journalists upload instances of police officials taking bribes on social networking and video sharing websites like YouTube.
Citizenship is then granted on their arrival in Pakistan.
Civil Bureaucracy is a colonial legacy in this part of the world.
Civil Judge Cum in Judicial Magistrates also appointed by the Provincial High Courts, on the recommendation of provincial Public Service Commissions.
Civil servants come from different cadres (e.g.
Civilian, yet socialist-oriented autocratic, rule continued from 1972 to 1977 under Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, but he was deposed by General Zia-Ul-Haq.
Civilians in Ayub Khan's administration were dismissed by the military government which replaced them with military officers.
Claiming that 40 seats in the national assembly were rigged, the dissidents boycotted the provincial elections, leading to low voter turnout.
Claims of electoral malpractice in the 2018 elections are still hotly debated.
Claims of religious discrimination and restrictions on religious freedom in Azad Kashmir have been made against Pakistan.
Clark also highlighted that two of the Supreme Court's nine justices were absent from the decision, both showing signs of having been forced to not participate.
Clary said that during the 2014 Tsunami March and sit-in, there were widespread allegations of involvement by then ISI chief Zaheer-ul-Islam.
Clinton rebuked Sharif, however, and asked him to use his contacts to rein in the militants and withdraw Pakistani soldiers from Indian territory.
Close friends called her "BB", a name with which she signed some of her personal letters.
Closing the gender gap is the foremost objective of the SAP.
Co-written with the U.S. political scientist and journalist Mark Siegel, it would be published in 2008 as Reconciliation: Islam, Democracy and the West.
Colonel Gaddafi of former Socialist Libya considered Bhutto one of his greatest inspirations and was said to be very fond of Bhutto's intellectualism.
Colonel Sher Khan, the Director of Military Intelligence, was in charge of the briefing, along with Colonels Akbar Khan and Khanzadah.
Colonel Tariq Rafi plotted a coup against the government of Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto to establish a revolutionary military junta.
Coming at a time of exploding growth in electronic journalism in India, the Kargil news stories and war footage were often telecast live on TV, and many websites provided in-depth analysis of the war.
Coming to power in a palace coup, he secured the accession of his state to Pakistan, which was ultimately negated by Indian intervention in December 1947.
Commander in Chief of Navy Vice-Admiral HMS Choudri and his NHQ staff had been fighting with the Finance ministry and the MoD over the issues of rearmament and contingency plans.
Commentators and biographers have said that Bhutto shared her father's charisma but also his arrogance, and that like him she was impatient with criticism.
Commenting of the issue of suo motu, Justice K.M.
Commercial trade between Berlin and Islamabad has also been very essential in recent years seeing as Germany is Pakistan's fourth largest trade partner.
Commissioned officers of Pakistan Army, Pakistan Air Force and Pakistan Navy have a quota of 10% in all service groups of the Central Superior Services.
Commissions of 6.25% of the contract, approximately €50 million, were paid out to the lobbying firms in Pakistan and France.
Committee members questioned why dual citizenship was prohibited for judges and parliamentarians but permitted for bureaucrats and called for legislative measures to restrict such practices.
Commonwealth citizens initially continued to hold an automatic right to settle in the United Kingdom and Ireland after 1949.
Commonwealth citizens may alternatively acquire citizenship by registration with a financial investment in the country.
Commonwealth citizens who make a substantial financial investment in the state are eligible for a facilitated naturalisation process.
Comparisons with Aquino were often made — and welcomed by Bhutto — because both women had fought against a military dictatorship and spent time in exile.
Compensation rates under the Worker's Compensation Act were increased.
Compromising, she accepted ul Haq's continued role as finance minister but appointed Wasim Jafri as her financial advisor.
Concerned about the instability of their ally, the US government pushed Musharraf to meet with Bhutto and come to an arrangement that might strengthen his legitimacy.
Concerns were also raised about the relaxation of dual nationality rules, citing the example of the chairman of the National Accountability Bureau (NAB).
Concurrently, Pakistan made several contradicting statements, confirming its role in Kargil, when it defended the incursions saying that the LOC itself was disputed.
Concurrently, the Afridi tribesmen began to rise up in arms against the British, creating a zone of instability between Peshawar and the Durand Line.
Conflict resumed again in early 1965, when Pakistani and Indian forces clashed over disputed territory along the border between the two nations.
Confrontation with Benazir Bhutto in 1999 over the party guidance, Aftab Sherpao splits from the party and forming the Pakistan Peoples Party (Sherpaoist)—a more reformist with libertarian agenda.
Confrontation with India continued over Kashmir, which led to a serious military standoff in 2002 after India alleged Pakistan-backed Kashmiri insurgents carried out the 2001 Indian Parliament attack.
Congress had hitherto refused to acknowledge the Muslim League's claim of being the representative of Indian Muslims but finally recognised to the League's claim after the results of this election.
Consequently, Abbas broke away from the National Conference and revived the old Muslim Conference in 1941, in collaboration with Mirwaiz Yusuf Shah.
Consequently, Bhutto chose not to pursue an appeal.
Consequently, Bhutto's government opted to retaliate, launching a covert counter-operation in 1974 under Major-General Naseerullah Babar, then Director-General of the M.I.
Consequently, China has become Pakistan's third-largest trading partner overall.
Consequently, Minister Asif called for the corpse of dictator Ayub to be dug out of his grave and be hung for the offence of high treason in accordance with Article 6 of the Constitution of Pakistan.
Consequently, Pakistan was suspended from the Commonwealth of Nations.
Consequently, Pakistan's exports-to-GDP ratio had been declining for the last two decades.
Consequently, he directed the provision of fans, water coolers, and pay telephones in each hostel as quickly as physically possible.
Consequently, it appears to be the law in Pakistan that persons convicted under § 295-C must be sentenced to death with or without a fine.
Consequently, on 10 January 1977, he advised the president to dissolve the National Assembly.
Consequently, the Bhutto government launched programmes to lead the country towards self-sufficiency in rice hulling, sugar milling, and wheat husking industries.
Consequently, the Mukti Bahini succeeded in harassing Pakistani military in East Pakistan, creating conditions conducive to a full-scale Indian military intervention in early December.
Consequently, the state of People's Republic of Bangladesh was born, and Bhutto and others condemned Yahya Khan for failing to protect Pakistan's unity.
Consequently, when the pact was concluded in May 1954, Nehru withdrew the plebiscite offer and declared that the status quo was the only remaining option.
Consequently, women will be able to get justice".
Conservative Islamic scholars were appointed to the Council of Islamic Ideology.
Conservative clerical opponents also claimed that by being prime minister, Bhutto was failing her religious duty, which was to focus her energies on having as many children as possible.
Considering the existing political challenges faced by Sharif and shaky democratic process in the country, ownership of the rather flawed Vision 2025 is another major concern.
Constitution was drafted which came into force on 26 January 1957.
Contrary to Constitution of 1956 and Constitution of 1962, several ideas in the Constitution were new, and guaranteed security to each citizen of Pakistan.
Contrary to the Western model, Bhutto's government aimed to relieve workers of the financial burden, funding the scheme through a 5% contribution from employers based on the wage bill.
Contrary to their beliefs, the city was defended by 2 brigades which responded with heavy firing towards the attacking Indian forces.
Control of the state was split between the two sides by the Line of Control after the end of armed conflict, although both Pakistan and India claim sovereignty over the whole territory.
Controversially, in 1999, the party was significantly divided, further affecting Nawaz Sharif's trial in military court.
Controversially, some attribute Bhutto for the Bangladesh Liberation War.
Controversially, the East Pakistani Army did not interfere in the conflict and this caused anger in West Pakistan against East Pakistan.
Conversely, Abdullah's National Conference enjoyed influence in the Valley.
Conversely, towards the end of Zia's regime, there was a popular wave of cultural change in the country.
Convinced that diplomatic solutions would not favor Pakistan, Pakistan launched Operation Gibraltar against India, which escalated to the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965, which resulting in a stalemate.
Corruption in Pakistan involves fraudulent practices carried out by officials and institutions, ranging from petty bribery to high-profile scandals.
Corruption is found to be commonplace in the lower levels of police.
Council elections are held every four years.
Courses will be co-instructed by faculty from the Medill School, accomplished newsroom managers, editors and reporters from the United States, and prominent media professionals from Pakistan.
Created as an Islamisation measure by the military regime and subsequently protected under the controversial 8th Amendment, its opponents question the very rationale and utility of this institution.
Creation of six militant groups in Kashmir, which included Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), was aided by the ISI.
Cricket and hockey matches between the two (as well as other sports to a lesser degree such as those of the SAARC/South Asian Games) have often been political in nature.
Crimes by state forces are done inside Kashmir Valley which is the location of the present conflict.
Criticism from the United States further damaged Ayub Khan's authority in the country.
Criticism over the presidency after the presidential election held in 1965 over the centralizing of powers.
Critics argue the institution should be more accountable to the president or the prime minister.
Critics argued that it risked further consolidating military authority and diminishing civilian oversight, potentially upsetting the balance of civil-military relations.
Critics argued that such developments undermined public participation and transparency in national decision-making, contributing to broader political and societal disillusionment.
Critics argued that this discrepancy allowed influential individuals to retain foreign affiliations without accountability.
Critics blamed his socialist policies for economic setbacks, but Bhutto argued he addressed inequality from previous regimes.
Critics of Abbot's viewpoint note that Iqbal was raised and educated in the European way of life, and spent enough time there to grasp the general concepts of Western civilisation.
Critics of Sheikh hold the view that he gave up the cherished goal of plebiscite for gaining Chief Minister's chair.
Critics of the ISI say that it has become a state within a state and not accountable enough.
Critics of the decision also argue that it is inconsistent with the principles laid down in Malik Asad Ali's case where it was held that the Chief Justice was bound by the Court's judgement.
Critics of the decision question the fact that some PCO judges are still working and some non-PCO judges have been sacked.
Critics of the then Chief Minister, Farooq Abdullah, charged that Abdullah was losing control.
Cultural and linguistic differences between the two wings gradually outweighed any sense of religious unity.
Culturally, the growing emphasis on secularism led to a backlash with Islamic parties becoming more popular.
Culturally, their embroidery sustains indigenous practices that might otherwise be lost in the tide of modernization.
Curfews were imposed in all 10 districts of Kashmir, over 100 civilians died and over 17,000 were injured in clashes with the police.
Currently the party is split between three factions.
Currently the promulgated Constitution of Pakistan, in its amended form, stands as the 7th lengthiest constitution of the world with a word count of 56,240 Words.
Currently there are twenty (20) women members out of a total of 104 Senators.
Currently, CSS exams conducted by the Federal Public Service Commission include the following Occupational Groups.
Currently, both countries are member states of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, Economic Cooperation Organization and South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation.
Currently, more than 128.8 million database of voters are placed on ECP's prestigious SMS (8300) for over 190 million mobile customers of the country.
Currently, the Army's combat services consist of active-duty personnel and reservists that operate as members of the National Guard and the paramilitary Civil Armed Forces.
Currently, the Supreme Court is incorporated of Chief Justice of Pakistan, seventeen justices, and two ad-hoc appointments for Shariat Appellate Bench.
Currently, the heads of MQM North America are former Federal Minister Khalid Maqbool Siddiqui and Ibad Rehman.
Currently, there are a total of 342 seats in the National Assembly.
Currently, there are sixteen judges and nine positions are vacant.There are two ad hoc appointment of the jurists from the Federal Shariat Court to assist with religiosity concerned cases.
Dacca is now the free capital of a free country.
Daily Times columnist Farman Nawaz raised several questions about this kind of journalistic approach.
Dar emphasized Pakistan's desire for an "expanded and stable" relationship, acknowledging U.S. support in facilitating a ceasefire with India and responding to Islamabad's recent diplomatic requests.
Dar subsequently retracted his statement, asserting it was made under duress.
Data released in 2011 by Jammu and Kashmir government stated that, in the last 21 years, 43,460 people have been killed in the Kashmir insurgency.
Dawn has found that the progress on some promises is still stuck in its initial stages or has been marred with delays.
Dawn wrote that it was seen as the second most dangerous attack from the US to Pakistan after dropping missiles as this issue was so serious.
Decisions are usually announced later in the day, once the judge has had time to peruse the case files after the hearings.
Decisions made the Federal Shariat Court may be appealed to the Appellate Bench, as the Appellate Bench of Supreme Court is the final authority on Islamic interpretation of law in Pakistan.
Decisions on the development of nuclear weapons were made by Indian political leaders after the 1962 Chinese invasion and territorial annexation of North India.
Defended by a larger force of three battalions under the 107 Infantry brigade commanded by Brig Mohammad Hayat, the two day battle resulted in heavy Pakistani casualties and an Indian victory.
Defense ties between the two countries strengthened almost immediately following Khan's visit to the United States.
Democracy in Pakistan, however imperfect, has been allowed to function to varying degrees.
Democracy returned again in 1988 with general elections which were held after President Zia-ul-Haq's death.
Demoralized and pressured, Ayub Khan handed over the regime to his junior Commander-in-Chief of Pakistan Army General Yahya Khan in 1969.
Denial of recognition of Hindu marriages is often used to intimidate and harass Hindus.
Departing an election rally in Rawalpindi on 27 December 2007, Benazir Bhutto was assassinated by a gunman who shot her in the neck and set off a bomb.
Departing from the Western education system, Bhutto returned most literature to the Western world and encouraged local academicians to publish books in their respective fields.
Deputy Afghan Foreign Minister Abdul Samad Ghaus also admitted that, before the compromise, Afghanistan had been heavily involved inside Pakistan.
Deputy Attorney-General Agha Tariq Mehmood, who represented the federal government, said that the Shariat Appellate Bench dismissed the appeal because the appellant did not pursue it.
Derived from the British Empire of the former Imperial Civil Service, the civil service came into its modern formation immediately after the establishment of Pakistan as a "Civil Service of Pakistan".
Despite Bhutto calling for fresh elections, the PNA failed to secure a clear majority and disputed the results, accusing their opponents of rigging the election.
Despite Bhutto reaching an agreement with the opposition, the coup took place on the pretext of unrest.
Despite Britain's sovereignty over both types of holdings, domestic law in the United Kingdom treated the princely states as foreign territory.
Despite Carter's embargo on Pakistan, Bhutto persisted in acquiring materials for Pakistan's atomic bomb project, ultimately contributing to the breakdown of the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks.
Despite Pakistan's limited financial resources, Bhutto was so enthusiastic about the nuclear energy project that he is reported to have said "Pakistanis will eat grass but make a nuclear bomb".
Despite U.S. efforts to destroy the aircraft, part of the tail section remained intact.
Despite US denial, many authors, and the PPP's intellectuals themselves, held the US responsible and suspected the US of playing a "hidden noble role" behind the coup.
Despite Zia's tough rhetoric against the Western culture and music, underground rock music jolted the country and revived the cultural counter-attack on the Indian film industry.
Despite administration efforts to block the gathering, the crowd's size led to disorder, providing a pretext for Bhutto's arrest, claiming it was necessary for his safety.
Despite all of this, Afghan President Hamid Karzai labelled Pakistan as Afghanistan's "twin brother".
Despite an economic recovery in late 1993, the IJI government faced public unease about the direction of the country and industrialisation that revolved around and centered only in Punjab Province.
Despite an extensive 1982 trade agreement, the volume of bilateral trade remains comparatively small at US$4.8 million.
Despite an increase in appetite (he then weighed just over 36 kilograms or 79 pounds), it was clear to his doctors that if he was to return to Karachi in life, he would have to do so very soon.
Despite appeals of clemency sent by many nations, the government upheld the Supreme Court verdict and followed the Supreme Court orders when Bhutto was hanged in 1979.
Despite assurances from ISI leadership, these claims persisted, leading to an investigation by the Supreme Judicial Council of Pakistan.
Despite being numerically superior than the Indian side, Pakistan failed at capturing the region and the Indian units pushed back and threatened Sialkot.
Despite being rapidly assembled, the IJI failed to secure a victory in the 1988 elections.
Despite domestic criticism, he remains Pakistan's most popular leader.
Despite extensive planning, the operation inflicted only limited damage.
Despite facing severe harassment in Pakistan, these activists, along with other Afghan refugees, have appealed for asylum in third countries.
Despite failing to sabotage the airfields, Pakistan sources claim that the commando mission affected some planned Indian operations.
Despite having to undergo strict measures, PTI won the largest vote share and second largest seat share.
Despite her tough policies, the popularity of Benazir Bhutto waned after her husband allegedly became involved in the controversial death of Murtaza Bhutto.
Despite her tough rhetoric, Prime Minister Bhutto's own position deteriorated in her native province, Sindh, and lost her support following the death of her younger brother.
Despite her western and positive image in the world, Bhutto's controversial policies and support have made her legacy much more complicated.
Despite ideological similarities, clashes between them became increasingly farcical.
Despite initiatives to compromise, the summit ended without any settlement and Musharraf returned to Pakistan.
Despite initiatives to normalize relations with the Soviet Union, Ayub Khan remained inclined towards the United States and the western world, receiving President Johnson in Karachi in 1967.
Despite its Muslim majority, the princely rule was overwhelmingly a Hindu-dominated state.
Despite its close relations with India, the Soviet Union was more neutral than other nations during the war, inviting both nations to peace talks under its aegis in Tashkent.
Despite its democratic-socialist ideas, the Peoples Party never actually allied with the Soviet Union, with the Communist Party of Pakistan remaining one of its major rivals.
Despite its heavy public mandate, serious disagreements appeared within the party.
Despite its illegality, homosexual acts are only occasionally prosecuted by authorities, but it is sometimes used to threaten and harass homosexuals under threat of prosecution.
Despite its troubled history, the Pakistani military once occupied an important place in American geopolitical strategy, and has been a major non-NATO ally since 2002.
Despite official sanction of holding alternate nationalities with a limited set of countries, dual nationals are constitutionally prohibited from serving in the Parliament of Pakistan.
Despite repeated assurances, the United States did little to prevent extensive use of American arms by Pakistani forces during the conflict, thus irking India.
Despite severe repression, in what is known as the 1968 movement in Pakistan, people belonging to different occupations revolted against the regime.
Despite strong fears of Chinese intervention on the side of Pakistan, the Chinese government ultimately exercised restraint.
Despite the PTI's chairman Imran Khan, calling the general elections the most "fairest" in the country's history, the opposition allege that the election was rigged in favour of the PTI.
Despite the atrocity, Karim does not wish the remaining killer Ajmal Kasab to be sentenced to death.
Despite the attacks, the party has advocated dialogue with moderate tribal elements to end the violence in the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Federally Administered Tribal Areas.
Despite the ban, the party was allowed to continue to take part in elections as it was not delisted by the ECP.
Despite the challenges, Khan has shown no signs of backing down from his campaign against the military.
Despite the declaration of a ceasefire, India was perceived by many as the victor due to its success in halting the Pakistan-backed insurgency in Kashmir.
Despite the first set of the Constitution giving central power in 1956, the next six prime ministers were dismissed by the governor-general from 1951 till 1957.
Despite the improvement in Pakistan's literacy rate since its independence, the educational status of Pakistani women is among the lowest in the world.
Despite the initiatives undertaken by Bhutto's government to boost the country's economy, the economical growth remained at an equilibrium level.
Despite the obvious strength of the Indian win, both countries claim to have been victorious.
Despite the overthrow of the Bhutto government in 1977 by General Zia-ul-Haque, Chief of Army Staff of Pakistan Army, calls for secession and widespread civil disobedience remained.
Despite the protests, state elections in November–December 2008 in Indian administered Kashmir saw a high voter turnout of more than 60% of the total registered electors.
Despite the rejection, Jinnah and the League saw the Cripps proposal as recognising Pakistan in principle.
Despite the standstill agreement with Pakistan, teams of Pakistani forces were dispatched into Kashmir.
Despite the tenure of the Assembly being five years, as prescribed in the Constitution, Mr. Z.A.
Despite their significant earnings, the couple did not pay the amount of tax owed; between 1993 and 1994, Bhutto paid no income tax at all.
Despite these difficulties, Bhutto led the PPP to victory in the election, taking 93 of the 205 contested seats.
Despite these revelations, no one has faced any repercussions and the case remains largely forgotten.
Despite this lack of deprivation, Pakistan has concluded a series of bilateral agreements with other countries that explicitly allow dual nationality with the participating states.
Despite this most recent power-stripping, the President remains the ex officio chair of the National Security Council, as per the National Security Act 2004.
Despite this, Werrell credits the PAF as having the advantage of a "decade's experience with the Sabre" and experienced pilots.
Despite this, both Pakistan and the United States continue to seek a productive relationship to defeat terrorist organizations in the war on terror.
Despite this, he continued to financially support her till his death.
Despite this, in July 2021 Indian government rejected Pakistan's call for talks, stating that "Peace, prosperity can't coexist with terrorism".
Despite this, other nationalist proposals were being made.
Despite threats, arrests, and vilification, she never backed down from defending human rights in a country where dissent is often dangerous.
Despite women's legal rights to own and inherit property from their families, in 2000 there were very few women who had access and control over these resources.
Detailed arrangements for the military leadership and armaments were described in the plan.
Dev Anand offered him a role in his 1990 Bollywood sports action-thriller Awwal Number as a declining cricket star, but he refused, citing his lack of acting skills.
Devastated, Pirzada relayed the news to Bhutto, disclosing General Zia-ul-Haq's intentions.
Devaud's investigations revealed a range of corrupt deals that Zardari had been involved with.
Development of the nuclear weapons program also took place under the Bhutto's administration as part of the defense strategy to prevent foreign invasions on 20 January 1972.
Developments came when General Musharraf, along with Major-General Tariq Majid and Brigadier Nadeem Taj, returned to Pakistan on a PIA 777-200.
Devinder Singh was also injured in this assault.
Differences and problems also leveled up with the Pakistan Armed Forces, and a local and native section of Pakistan Army was completely hostile towards Ali Khan's diplomatic approach with India.
Diplomat J. N. Dixit states that the negotiations at Simla were painful and tortuous, and almost broke down.
Diplomatic and trade relations were also re-established in 1976.
Diplomatic recognition became a problem when the Soviet Union led by Joseph Stalin did not welcome the partition which established Pakistan and India.
Diplomatic relations between Pakistan and China were established on 21 May 1951.
Diplomatic relations between Pakistan and the People's Republic of China (PRC) were established on 21 May 1951, shortly after the retreat of the Republic Of China in 1949.
Diplomatic relationship between Pakistan and Brunei are very warm and friendly, this is primarily because both are Muslim countries and member of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation.
Direct rule by Islamabad has been replaced by an elected legislative assembly under a chief minister.
Directorate-General for Western Fronts (DGWI).
Disagreeing with Benazir and Asif Ali Zardari's political philosophy brewing the party, Murtaza Bhutto split and formed the more powerful yet more leaning towards left wing faction, Bhuttoist in 1995.
Disagreeing with the signing of Tashkent agreement, Bhutto was ousted from the ministry on the personal directive of President Khan in 1966.
Disagreement existed about the approach and methods to realise these aims.
Disagreement over Musharraf's attempt to extend his term effectively paralysed parliament for over a year.
Disapproval of Ayub Khan was widely expressed by chanted slogans and insults referring to him.
Discredited by the defeat, President Khan resigned and Bhutto was inaugurated as president and chief martial law administrator on 20 December 1971.
Discrimination and disapproval of the LGBTQ community and the associated social stigma, which can lead to harassment and violence, make it difficult for LGBTQ people to have steady relationships.
Discussions will focus on potential Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) transactions, with Russian terminals expected to be ready by 2026.
Dissatisfied with the law, Jinnah briefly embarked on a stage career with a Shakespearean company, but resigned after receiving a stern letter from his father.
Dissenters formed the Pakistan Muslim League, later called Pakistan Muslim League (Quaid-e-Azam) (or PML-Q), which became allies of then president Pervez Musharraf.
Dissidence grew within the PPP, and the murder of dissident leader Ahmed Raza Kasuri's father triggered public outrage and intra-party hostility.
Dissidents such as Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain remained quiet and later formed Pakistan Muslim League (Q) (PML-Q), splitting Nawaz's party into small factions.
District councils and metropolitan corporations are respectively the highest rural and urban tiers of local government in the provinces.
Dixon agreed that people in Jammu and Ladakh were clearly in favour of India; equally clearly, those in Azad Kashmir and the Northern Areas wanted to be part of Pakistan.
Dixon also had concerns that the Kashmiris, not being high-spirited people, may vote under fear or improper influences.
Dixon came to the conclusion that India would never agree to conditions and a demilitarization which would ensure a free and fair plebiscite.
Dixon did not view the state of Jammu and Kashmir as one homogeneous unit and therefore proposed that a plebiscite be limited to the Valley.
Dixon had believed a neutral administration would be essential for a fair plebiscite.
Dixon then offered an alternative proposal, widely known as the Dixon plan.
Dixon's efforts for a statewide plebiscite came to naught due to India's constant rejection of the various alternative demilitarisation proposals, for which Dixon rebuked India harshly.
Doctors urged him to return to Karachi, where he could receive better care, and with his agreement, he was flown there on the morning of 11 September.
Dogar further stated that during the cabinet meeting, the prime minister stressed that if the army is a respected institution then the PM Office is also a respected one.
Dograi was eventually recaptured by the three Jats on 21 September, for the second time but after a much harder battle due to Pakistani reinforcements, in the Battle of Dograi.
Domestic crime and violence increased while Musharraf attempted to contain the political pressure.
Domestic violence in Pakistan is an endemic social problem.
Domestic violence, forced marriage, and other forms of abuse continue to be issues of concern.
Domestically, Ayub subscribed to the laissez-faire policy of Western-aligned nations at the time.
Donations to the hospital halved that year as a result.
Dr Ilahi Bux, his personal physician, believed that Jinnah's change of mind was caused by foreknowledge of death.
Dr Seema Kazi holds the security forces more responsible for raping than militants due to rape by the former being larger in scale and frequency.
Dr Seema Kazi says these rapes cannot be ignored as rare occurrences nor should be ignored the documented acknowledgement of individual soldiers that they were ordered to rape.
Dr. A. Q. Khan established an administrative proliferation network through Dubai to smuggle URENCO nuclear technology to Khan Research Laboratories.
Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan is considered to be the founder of Pakistan's HEU based gas-centrifuge uranium enrichment programme, which was originally launched by PAEC in 1974.
Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan, a metallurgical engineer, greatly contributed to the uranium enrichment programme under both governments.
Dr. Abdus Salam, supported by the President, personally approved the project in Karachi while the project in East Pakistan never materialized.
Dr. Fehmida Mirza and Mr. Fasial Karim Kundi were elected Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly respectively on 19 March 2008.
Dr. Mohammad Iqbal, an Indian documentary film directed by K.A.
Dr. Nafisa Shah hailing from Pakistan Peoples Party Parliamentarians was the first Secretary of Women's Parliamentary Caucus.
Dr. Noor Jahan Panezai was the only woman member elected as a Senator for the term from 1991 to 1994.
Drivers and travelers, including women and children, were stuck in harsh winter conditions, with many forced to sleep in vehicles or in the open.
Due to Article 58-2(b), he had the authority to dissolve the National Assembly in his discretion when the Government of Federation cannot be carried according to the provisions of the Constitution.
Due to Benazir Bhutto's stubbornness and authoritative actions, her political rivals gave her the nickname "Iron Lady" of Pakistan.
Due to India's Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1961, it is illegal in India to exclude all or part of Kashmir from a map (or to publish any map that differs from those of the Survey of India).
Due to MQM's militant activities and sectarian killings in Karachi, Nawaz Sharif was forced to end the alliance with MQM for the benefit of the nation.
Due to Pakistan's pro-Palestinian stance, bilateral relations between Pakistan and Israel have continuously wavered over the last few years.
Due to an alleged crackdown, PTI was unable to campaign for the elections.
Due to complex regional alliances, the war was a major episode in Cold War tensions involving the United States, the Soviet Union and China.
Due to disturbances in East Pakistan, no National Assembly session was called and the military moved into East Pakistan and executed Operation Searchlight.
Due to economic pressures, Nawaz halted the national space programme.
Due to lack of evidence, she was convicted for adultery under the Zina ordinance, while the rapists were acquitted.
Due to low numbers of native businessmen in East Pakistan, substantial labor unrest and a tense political environment, there were also much lower foreign investments in the eastern wing.
Due to martial law, his reign was the longest in the history of Balochistan (1977–1984).
Due to religious persecution in Pakistan, Hindus continue to flee to India.
Due to rising insurgency and Islamic militancy in the Kashmir Valley, Kashmiri Pandits were forced to flee the valley.
Due to the Mass Uprising protests in East Pakistan, finding no way, frightened General Ayub Khan resigned on 25 March 1969 and appointed General Yahya Khan as his successor.
Due to the importance of their respective assignments, there are twelve specific federal secretaries which are considered to be the most vital in the Government of Pakistan.
Due to the religious and cultural values in Pakistan, women who do try to enter the workforce are often pushed into the lower of the three employment structures.
Due to the speaker being a contestant in the election, the deputy speaker, Dost Muhammad Mazari of the PTI was in charge of the proceedings.
Due to their distinctive service headgear, the Army SSG is colloquially known as the Maroon Berets.
Due to their dominance in both print and broadcast industries all three media groups are very influential in politics and society.
During 1960–66, the annual GDP growth was recorded at 6.8%.
During 1961–65, Ayub lost much of his support from President John F. Kennedy and President Lyndon Johnson as they sought closer relations with India.
During 1985 to 1997 executive powers were share between presidents and prime ministers due to 8th amendment to Constitution.
During FY2014–15, Nawaz's government announced additional PSDP funding from ₨425 to ₨525 billion.
During February 1999, the Pakistan Army sent forces to occupy some posts on the Indian side of the LOC.
During June 2016, cross-border shootings between Afghan and Pakistani forces left three people dead after tensions escalated over Pakistan's construction of fences across the Durand Line.
During Khan's premiership, Pakistan's relationship with neighbouring Afghanistan was tense due to the latter's opposition to Pakistan's entry into the United Nations.
During Khan's tenure several new policies were implemented including strict austerity measures, promises to uproot corruption, increased tax collection and a rise in social welfare programs.
During Khan's tenure, India and Pakistan agreed to resolve the dispute of Kashmir in a peaceful manner through the efforts of the United Nations.
During March 2009 demonstrations demanding the reinstatement of Chief Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry, authorities temporarily shut down the cable service of Geo TV and Aaj TV in cities around the country.
During Nine Zero raid, MQM worker Waqas Shah was shot by a Ranger's 9mm pistol fire from point blank range.
During Operation Clean-up, MQM was accused of being anti-Pakistan and of planning a separatist break-away state, Jinnahpur.
During PTI's public protests, Geo News DSNGs had to remove their stickers to escape vandalism by party workers.
During Pakistan's 1982–83 series against India, he took 40 wickets at an average of 13.95.
During World War II, he was promoted to the temporary rank of lieutenant-colonel in 1942 and was posted in Burma to participate in the first phase of the Burma Campaign in 1942–43.
During a massive political rally in 1951, Prime Minister Ali Khan was assassinated, and Nazimuddin became the second prime minister.
During a military coup a year later, Musharraf arrested Butt, who had been promoted to Chief of Army Staff by Sharif.
During a public reception in Chittagong in 1948, Jinnah declared that Pakistan should be based on social justice and Islamic socialism.
During a trip to London, Bhutto faced Islamist protests outside the Dorchester Hotel, where she was staying.
During a trip to Pakistan on 10 February 2016, World Bank Group's president Jim Yong Kim applauded the economic policies of Nawaz's government.
During a visit to Beijing, Bhutto and his staff received a warm welcome from the Chinese leadership, including Mao Zedong.
During her campaign for the 1993 general election, the Salafi jihadist Ramzi Yousef unsuccessfully attempted to assassinate her twice.
During her election campaigns, she voiced concerns over social issues of women, health and discrimination against women.
During her first and second term, the difference between rich and poor visibly increased and the middle class in particular were the ones who bore the brunt of the economic inequality.
During her first premiership, Bhutto went on a number of foreign trips, enhancing her image as the first female prime minister in the Islamic world.
During her second term, Bhutto also became increasingly open about her support for such an economic policy, pursuing broadly similar approaches to those of Sharif.
During her second term, Bhutto appointed both her husband and mother to her cabinet.
During her second term, Bhutto continued to follow former prime minister Nawaz Sharif's privatisation policies, which she called a "disciplined macroeconomics policy".
During her second term, relations with Indian Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao further deteriorated.
During her years in office, Bhutto also did nothing to seriously challenge the feudal nature of rural Pakistan.
During his detention in Banni, Yahya was under strict surveillance.
During his five years of government, the Bhutto administration implemented extensive reforms at every level of governance.
During his imprisonment, Bhutto's children Murtaza and Benazir worked tirelessly to garner international support for their father's release.
During his interrogation which was recorded, Hanif claimed that the Taliban leader was being kept in Quetta under the protection of the ISI.
During his parliamentary career, Khan established his reputation as "eloquent, principled and honest spokesman" who would never compromise on his principles even in the face of severe odds.
During his premiership, he spoke out against Islamophobia in the western world.
During his presidency, differences between West and East Pakistan arose to an enormous degree, that ultimately led to the independence of Bangladesh following the Bangladesh Liberation War.
During his rule, he implemented both liberal reforms and authoritarian measures, while also forming alliances and impacting the situation in Balochistan.
During his short span of four years as the head of state, four prime ministers were changed, three of them were his appointees, while the only popularly elected Bengali prime minister was dismissed.
During his student years in England, Jinnah was influenced by 19th-century British liberalism, like many other future Indian independence leaders.
During his studies at the University of California, Berkeley, Bhutto became interested in the theories of socialism, delivering a series of lectures on their feasibility in Islamic countries.
During his study in Europe, Iqbal began to write poetry in Persian.
During his tenure as foreign minister, he collaborated with Abdus Salam in 1967 to set up the Institute of Theoretical Physics.
During his tenure as prime minister, several land reforms were introduced.
During his tenure, Khan supervised the promulgation of the October Objectives in 1949 which passed by the Constituent Assembly.
During his term, Bhutto formulated aggressive geostrategic and foreign policies against India.
During his time in office, the government carried out seven major amendments to the 1973 Constitution.
During his time spent fighting for the British Empire against Pashtun Freedom Fighters in Waziristan, he learnt to speak Pashto fluently for his deployment in the North-West Frontier.
During his visit, Overchuk is scheduled to hold talks with President Asif Ali Zardari, Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif, and Finance Minister Ishaq Dar.
During its federal government, the PML-N successfully privatised the major heavy industries under its planned industrial development programme.
During its first few years of existence the British monarch was also Pakistan's head of state, as is still the case in Canada, Australia etc.
During its previous tenure from 1997 to 1999, the PML-N government took a series of measures to control terrorist groups by establishing the Anti Terrorism Courts.
During its time in opposition, the PTI, with the help of popular slogans such as Tabdeeli Arahi Hai (lit.
During its time of formation, the bureaucracy produced Ghulam Ishaq Khan who would go on to become the President of Pakistan.
During most of 1947–1991, the USSR support was given to Republic of India, over which it has fought three wars on Kashmir conflict.
During that movement, Nawaz Sharif travelled through the length and breadth of Pakistan.
During the 1960s, Pakistan's population was generally pro-American and also held a positive view of the United States.
During the 1960s, Pakistan's relations with and neighbouring Afghanistan have also been extremely difficult due to the latter's contest over the Durand Line.
During the 1962 and 1972, approximately 200 rockets were fired from the Sonmiani, but this cooperation waned after 1972.
During the 1971 war he was scheduled to depart to East Pakistan to join the army-navy joint military operations, but the deployment was cancelled after Indian Army advances towards Southern Pakistan.
During the 1971 war with India, he was a company commander of an SSG commando battalion.
During the 1980s and 1990s the corporation expanded its network to many cities and towns of Pakistan to provide greater service to the local people.
During the 1980s and 1990s, he was regarded as one of the most eligible bachelors.
During the 1980s, Nawaz gained influence as a supporter of General Zia-ul-Haq's military government.
During the 1980s, the JUI supported some of General Zia ul Haq's policies, including his anti-Soviet Jihad in Afghanistan.
During the 1985 general election, a new PML-N emerged on the country's political scene.
During the 1992 violence Altaf Hussain left the country when a warrant was issued for him in connection with a murder.
During the 1994 violence, heavily political killings were reported between MQM, MQM factions, and Sindhi nationalist groups.
During the 1997 elections, Nawaz promised to follow his policy of nuclear ambiguity while using nuclear energy to stimulate the economy.
During the 2002 general elections, party chairman Imran Khan won one seat from Mianwali.
During the 2008 vice-presidential debate, Joe Biden was asked to identify whether Iran or Pakistan posed a greater threat to the United States.
During the 2010 Pakistan floods, Trinidad Congress of the People party donated US$33,000 worth of aid to Pakistan flood victims.
During the 2015 Nine Zero raid, MQM worker Waqas Shah was shot by a Ranger's 9 mm pistol from point blank range.
During the 2017 intra-party elections, 2.7 million party workers cast their votes in a two-day process for party positions.
During the 2020 sugar price surge, Khan ordered an inquiry that implicated government and opposition figures and documented widespread wrongdoing in the sugar industry.
During the 2025 India–Pakistan conflict, bilateral maritime trade was suspended.
During the Anantnag riot in February 1986, many houses and other properties belonging to Hindus were looted, burnt or damaged.
During the Ayub era, the navy was able to introduce submarines and slowly modified itself by acquiring warships.
During the Bangladesh Liberation War and the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971, the United States aided Pakistan against the Provisional Government of Bangladesh and India.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, he launched Pakistan's largest welfare programme.
During the Cold War, the ISI and the CIA worked together to send spy planes over the Soviet Union.
During the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965, the United States refused to provide any military support to Pakistan, going against her pledge.
During the Muslim League's 1943 Delhi session, Jinnah referred to himself as a communist if communism simply referred to the disestablishment of class divisions and the eradication of poverty.
During the Second World War, over 60,000 men from Poonch and Mirpur districts enrolled in the British Indian Army.
During the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan General Zia-ul Haq travelled to India for a bout of "cricket diplomacy" to keep India from supporting the Soviets by opening another front.
During the Taliban insurgency, the Taliban received substantial financial and logistical backing from Pakistan.
During the Yom Kippur War of 1973 (usually referred to as the Ramadan war in Pakistan) several Pakistani pilots assisted the Syrian air force.
During the alleged mass killing in Bangladesh (erstwhile East-Pakistan), the military government had refused to take any political and reconciliation initiatives despite the calls were made.
During the battle, Pakistani rail bound reinforcements were attacked and destroyed by IAF Gnats.
During the campaign, he collectively visited over 25 towns and cities, addressing dozens of rallies and corner meetings.
During the conflict, the PAF claimed it was out-numbered by around 5:1.
During the course of 1976 presidential election, Carter was elected as U.S. President, and in his inaugural speech, he announced his determination to seek the ban of nuclear weapons.
During the course of the war, China harshly criticised India for its involvement in the East Pakistan crises, and accused India of having imperialistic designs in South Asia.
During the groundbreaking ceremony, Nawaz stated that Pakistan would construct six nuclear power plants during his term in office.
During the period from 1996 to 2004, the Russian Federation supplied about 70 helicopters to the partner.
During the replacement, a 24-hour pause was observed, enabling the Indian army to regroup in Akhnoor and successfully repel a sluggish assault led by General Yahya Khan.
During the rule of Ayub Khan, Pakistan enjoyed a close relationship with the United States.
During the same period, there were records of 4,242 women between the ages of 7–70 being raped.
During the simultaneous Bangladesh Genocide, alongside the U.S. and other nations, China helped to suppress reports of the massacres committed by Pakistan.
During the tenure of Benazir Bhutto, interior minister General Naseerullah Babar conducted a second operation against MQM between 1994 and 1996.
During the trial, the court did not admit witnesses for the defense because they were blood relatives of the accused.
During the two-day visit, he talked with President Putin in Kremlin about strengthening bilateral "economic and energy cooperation".
During the war, China openly supported the Pakistani position.
During the war, Jinnah joined other Indian moderates in supporting the British war effort, hoping that Indians would be rewarded with political freedoms.
During the war, Musharraf developed a reputation for sticking to his post under shellfire.
During the winter season, Indian forces regularly move down to lower altitudes, as severe climatic conditions makes it almost impossible for them to guard the high peaks near the Line of Control.
During these times MQM made mark for public benefit initiatives.
During these years, Yahya was also tasked in civil and administrative matters, including being the Administrator of the Islamabad Capital Project, "the job for major execution" being given to him.
During this course, General Rana directly reported to the prime minister and led the intelligence operations after which were approved by Benazir Bhutto.
During this period the private sector gained more power and educational reforms, human development and scientific achievements gained international recognition.
During this period, he shortened his name to Muhammad Ali Jinnah.
During this time the front began to settle down.
During this time the socialists gained a significant amount of support.
During this time, Army commander Ayub Khan paid visits to the United States – a figure who would later institute a strongly pro-American military government.
During this time, Ayub Khan survived a near-fatal cardiac arrest that put him out of the office, and later survived a paralysis attack that put him in a wheelchair.
During this time, Ayub Khan used the Pakistani intelligence community for his own advantage.
During this time, Benazir Bhutto and the centre-left PPP remained neutral, but her brother Murtaza Bhutto exerted pressure which suspended the operation.
During this time, Bhutto's father played a controversial role in the affairs of Junagadh.
During this time, Governor-General Malik Ghulam survived another attack of paralysis that made him unable to talk and walk, seeking treatment in the United Kingdom on a two-month leave.
During this time, Khan and his wife joined Jinnah, with Khan practising economic law and his wife joining the faculty of economics at the local college.
During this time, Khan intensified his support for Muslim-dominated populations, often raising the problems and challenges faced by the Muslim communities in the United Province.
During this time, Musharraf became close to engineering officer and director-general of ISI lieutenant-general Javed Nasir and had worked with him while directing operations in Bosnian war.
During this time, Supreme Court justices were described as notoriously conservative and only a few moderates, appointed by Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto as his role as President in 1971–73.
During this time, the PML-N was the largest conservative party, with its members occupying 137 seats out of 207, roughly 66.2%.
ECP officials denied the accusations classing then as unfounded and motivated by self-promotion, adding that a divisional commissioner had no direct role in the electoral process.
Each Assembly elects a Chief Minister, who then selects the ministers of his or her cabinet.
Each Cabinet member must be a member of Parliament (MP).
Each National Assembly is formed for a five-year term, commencing from the date of the first sitting, after which it is automatically dissolved.
Each Union Council has a secretariat, which is headed by a Secretary.
Each battalion in the Pakistan Army Special Forces is specifically trained for a specific type of operation, and each battalion is a specialist in their nature of conducting the operation.
Each colony had wide discretion in developing their own procedures and requirements for admitting foreigners as subjects.
Each district in Pakistan will have once such court according to the chief justice.
Each elector casts a different number of votes.
Each evening, the Wagah–Attari border ceremony takes place, in which the flags are lowered and guards on both sides make a pompous military display and exchange handshakes.
Each force had led their own independent operations without notifying or taking in confidence the higher command.
Each ministry/division has its Secretary to oversee and enforce the public policy matters.
Each of the four provinces is represented by 23 senators regardless of population, while the Islamabad Capital Territory is represented by four senators, all of whom serve staggered six-year terms.
Each of the provincial legislatures has an equal number of votes to each other, based on the number of members of the smallest legislature, which is the Balochistan Assembly (65 seats).
Each of the two countries features amongst the other's largest trading partners, and Pakistan serves as a major conduit for transit trade involving landlocked Afghanistan.
Each of these services had its own cadre and composition rules, specifying the total cadre strength in terms of its number of positions.
Each province has a Provincial Assembly, a directly elected legislature.
Each province has a directly elected unicameral legislature (provincial assembly), with members elected for five-year terms.
Each successive government in Pakistan has historically made a U-turn from its predecessor's policies.
Each year, millions of Indian Sikh pilgrims cross over to visit holy Sikh sites in Nankana Sahib.
Earlier in 1988–89, as Brigadier, Musharraf proposed the Kargil infiltration to Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto but she rebuffed the plan.
Earlier in the 1970s, the Peoples Party faced a "secret" cold war with the United States, but then suffered a US-backed coup in 1977.
Earlier, Munir Ahmad Khan was serving as Director of Nuclear Power and Reactors Division, IAEA.
Earlier, the British Government had formed the Simon Commission to recommend the constitutional and territorial reforms to the British Government.
Earlier, there was a 5% quota for women across the board in all Government departments.
Early biographer Hector Bolitho denied that Jinnah sought to enter the British Parliament, while Jaswant Singh deems Jinnah's time in Britain as a break or sabbatical from the Indian struggle.
Early initiatives were taken towards the continuation of economic liberalisation, privatisation and freedom of the media in 1999.
Early meetings of the Congress contained a minority of Muslims, mostly from the elite.
East Pakistan is an inseparable and unseverable part of Pakistan".
East Pakistan was already economically disadvantaged at the time of Pakistan's creation yet this economic disparity only increased under Pakistani rule.
East Pakistan was occupied mostly by Bengali people.
East Pakistani anger towards an absence of economic development was directed towards the United States, as well as West Pakistan.
East Pakistanis who were resident overseas at the time of separation could elect to remain Pakistani citizens by obtaining a certificate of citizenship from the government.
East-Pakistani judges, including Justice Siddique, refused to swear him in.
Economic aid to Pakistan was further increased by the United States through the consortium companies.
Economic and military targets in Dacca were attacked.
Economic growth in 1965 was a mere 0.88%.
Economic trade between Pakistan and China has been recently increasing, and a free trade agreement has been signed.
Economically, it helps them support their families and access basic needs.
Editorials were full of praise for the country's leadership and advocated the development of nuclear deterrence.
Efforts were made to start a constitutional dialogue.
Ehsan Ur Rahim, a staff member at the Pakistan High Commission, persona non grata for engaging in activities inconsistent with his diplomatic status.
Eight days later, 18 independent candidates joined the party, allowing PML-N to form the government without the agreement of another political party.
Eighty three percent (83%) of the respondents think that "To live a happy life women need children"; while only 17% think they do not.
Elahi was the former president of the Punjab Division of the PML(Q).
Elected for a five-year term by an Electoral College consisting of members of the Senate and National Assembly and members of the provincial assemblies, the president is eligible for re-election.
Elected in 1947, the first Constituent Assembly drafted and adopted its first constitution in 1956.
Election Commission of Pakistan is hosting zimni elections since It was founded.
Election for the Lahore seat was postponed due to questions of Nawaz's eligibility to contest.
Election results also showed liberals, the MQM, emerging as the third major party with 15 seats.
Elections for Constituency PK-78 were postponed to an disclosed date by the Election Commission.
Elections for minority seats are held on the basis of separate electorates at the same time as the polls for Muslim seats during the general elections.
Elections in Pakistan are conducted under the supervision of Election Commission of Pakistan.
Elections in Pakistan have been prone to irregularities including vote rigging, use of threats and coercion, and discrimination between Muslims and non-Muslims.
Elections in Pakistan take place every five years by universal adult suffrage.
Elections were held the next year for a Legislative Assembly.
Elements in the military began supporting the opposition political parties; it was this that finally brought about the demise of Ayub Khan's era.
Elements of his policy were continued by successive governments, playing a vital role in world politics.
Eleven military (army) officers and four civilians were involved in the conspiracy.
Embezzlement and kickbacks: misappropriation of public funds, especially in the public works, health, and education sectors.
Encouraging public protests, in November 1992, she organised a 10-mile march from Rawalpindi to Islamabad in protest at the IJI government.
Engaging in this craft allows women to contribute directly to their household income, often through small-scale businesses, cooperatives, or local markets.
English had become his principal language and would remain so throughout his life.
Enterprise and its escort ships arrived on station on 15 December 1971.
Enterprise arrived on station on 11 December 1971.
Equal provincial membership in the Senate, thus, balances the provincial inequality in the National Assembly.
Established as the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam in 1945, it is the result of a factional split in 1988 with 'F' standing for the name of its leader, Maulana Fazl-ur-Rehman.
Established under the Press Council of Pakistan Ordinance in October 2002, the body operates on a semi-autonomous nature along with an Ethical Code of Practice signed by President Musharraf.
Ethnic violence had broken out in Sindh as muhajir—mobilised by the MQM—rioted in protest at what they saw as their poor treatment.
Even as of today, the Pakistan Army's recruiters struggle to enlist citizens and their selfless commitment to the military from the urban areas (i.e.
Even before the elections, social media served as an effective tool to hold the nation's to-be-leaders "accountable" for various issues like corruption and education.
Even in large cities, however, gays and lesbians have to be highly discreet about their sexual orientation.
Even many Indian Muslims see Jinnah negatively, blaming him for their woes as a minority in that state.
Even once released by the courts, they were immediately re-arrested in other cases; Khan has been rearrested six times, while Afridi, and Rashid have been rearrested twice.
Even the date of his proposed visit was fixed and communicated to New Delhi.
Even though Islamic law requires that both partners explicitly consent to marriage, women are often forced into marriages arranged by their fathers or tribal leaders.
Even though the Civil Services of Pakistan have been still running on the pattern set out by British Raj (no major change has been performed), the Musharraf government started a major reform process.
Even though the Government has passed laws in favour of transgender people, the locals tend to not accept them and deny them basic education and healthcare.
Even though the Indian Navy intercepted the communications, lacking intelligence in Jammu and Kashmir, it was unable to determine immediately where the fighting was taking place.
Even though the interior minister Chaudhry Nisar claimed that the intentions of the operation were apolitical, there had been claims of systematic crackdowns against MQM.
Events which separated the communities included the failed attempt to form a coalition government including the Congress and the League in the United Provinces following the 1937 election.
Eventually Geert Wilders had no choice but to cancel his proposed cartoon contest due to fears of security risks and threats.
Eventually SAARC became defunct largely due to the impasse between the two nations, and since the 2025 Pahalgam attack, India removed SAARC visa privileges for Pakistani nationals.
Eventually, Musharraf forcefully removed President from his office when the latter forced President Tarar to forcefully resigned as president.
Eventually, Sharif chose then-Lieutenant-General Pervez Musharraf over two senior army generals for the appointment to post of the army chief and acting Chairman Joint Chief of Staff Committee.
Ever since its establishment in 1980, the Federal Shariat Court of Pakistan has been the subject of criticism and controversy in society.
Evidence from literary works and artworks relating to Zoroastrianism, Buddhism and Islam suggest that non-heterosexual sex was looked down upon or forbidden since at least 250 B.C.
Except for Fatima, little is known of his siblings, where they settled or if they met with their brother as he advanced in his legal and political careers.
Except for § 295-C, the provisions of § 295 require that an offence be a consequence of the intent of the accused.
Exchange of high-level visits during the last 10 years give credence to the fact that Pakistan and Turkmenistan have laid foundation of mutually beneficial relations, friendship and understanding.
Executive authority is vested in the prime minister-led and appointed cabinet, with the president of Pakistan serving as the nominal head of executive and state.
Executive power is vested with the national cabinet which is headed by Prime Minister of Pakistan (Shehbaz Sharif since 3 March 2024), who works with the bicameral parliament and the judiciary.
Exiled in 1959, Mirza lived the remainder of his life in exile in London, England, where he financially struggled running a small Pakistani cuisine hotel until his death.
Exiled to Saudi Arabia, Sharif was forced to be out of politics for nearly ten years.
Experts have criticised the CIA's fake vaccination drive to find bin Laden, stating that there could have been a better and more ethical way to find bin Laden.
Extensive education reforms were supposedly carried out, and 'scientific development efforts' were also supposedly made during his years.
Extremist Sunni Islamist elements opposed her because of their belief that female leaders are un-Islamic, and because she was a Shia Muslim.
Extremist groups have persecuted non-Muslims and used some laws as the legal basis for doing so.
Extremist organizations serving as proxies of the government of Pakistan are attacking Afghan troops and civilians as well as US soldiers.
FM broadcast licenses are awarded to parties that commit to open FM broadcasting stations in at least one rural city along with the major city of their choice.
FWBL, a nationalized commercial bank, was given the role of a development finance institution, as well as of a social welfare organization.
Faced with growing international pressure, Sharif managed to pull back the remaining soldiers from Indian territory.
Faced with popular unrest and revolt in East-Pakistan, the Army and Navy clamped down through violence.
Faced with the possibility of international isolation, the already fragile Pakistan economy was weakened further.
Facilitated by the lawyer Aitzaz Ahsan, the pair developed a joint plan of action.
Facing a mounting humanitarian and economic crisis, India actively aided and organized the Bangladeshi resistance army, the Mukti Bahini.
Facing an indirect war with the Soviet Union in the west, General Zia used cricket diplomacy to lessen the tensions with India.
Factionalism continued in 2011 when PPP sacked Mahmood Qureshi over the Raymond Davis incident in Lahore.
Fahd had expressed concern that the death sentence would provoke intense ethnic violence in Pakistan as had happened in the 1980s following the execution of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
Familial charisma is rare, but in Benazir's case the Bhutto name matters, in that her father's charisma easily transferred to her.
Farida Shaheed and Khawar Mumtaz, human rights activists and authors, associated with Shirkat Gah, a woman's organisation.
Farman said the entry was not expressing a thirst for blood, but concern that East Pakistan's future could be the red flag of Communism.
Farooq Sattar's coordination officer Syed Aftab Ahmed was killed while in the custody of paramilitary forces.
Farooq Sattar's coordination officer Syed Aftab Ahmed was killed while in the custody of the paramilitary Sindh Rangers.
Fasih Jugu, who was accused of assassination, was tortured to death by law enforcement officers.
Fatima Jinnah later wrote, "even in his hour of triumph, the Quaid-e-Azam was gravely ill ...
Fatima Jinnah's Combined Opposition Party (COP) only secured 10 seats whereas the NDF won 5 seats in East Pakistan and 1 in West Pakistan.
Fatima Lodhi is an activist, who is Pakistan's first anti-colourism and diversity advocate.
Faxian travelled in what is now modern-day Pakistan.
Fazal Ilahi Chaudhry became president in 1973 with PPP's support in four provinces.
Fazal Ilahi Chaudhry was elected as the president under the new constitution.
Fazlur Rehman Khalil, the leader of the Harkat-ul-Mujahideen, signed al-Qaeda's 1998 declaration of holy war, which called on Muslims to attack all Americans and their allies.
Fearful of Rabbani's potential assassination, this move took place amid heightened tensions.
Fearing a coup d'état, he further ordered the Jinnah Terminal to be sealed to prevent the landing of the airliner.
Fearing another arrest, he appointed his wife, Nusrat, as president of the Pakistan People's Party.
Fears of the Kargil War turning into a nuclear war provoked the then-United States President Bill Clinton to pressure Pakistan to retreat.
Federal Information Minister Maryam Aurangzeb questioned how Khan could demand resignations before any investigation.
Federal Minister for Information and Broadcasting Fawad Chaudhry confirmed the arrest as a protective custody.
Fehmida Mirza is the first female speaker of the National Assembly of Pakistan.
Female member of parliament and party loyalist Dr. Fehmida Mirza was appointed as the first female speaker in South Asia.
Females are educated equally like Males in urban areas such as Lahore, Islamabad and Karachi.
Few Pakistanis knew anything about Yahya Khan when he was vaulted into the presidency two years ago.
Few had expected that they would lose the formal war in under a fortnight, and there was also unsettlement over what was perceived as a meek surrender of the army in East Pakistan.
Few individuals significantly alter the course of history.
Few members of the Indian Civil Service and the Indian Police Service had chosen Pakistan, resulting in staff shortages.
Fewer still modify the map of the world.
Field Marshal Viscount Wavell succeeded Linlithgow as Viceroy in 1943.
Fierce clashes ensued, resulting in many deaths.
Fifty five percent (55%) of the respondents believe that "Both husband and wife should work"; while 45% said it is wrong for both husband and the wife to work.
Finally in 2019, the Special Court found Musharraf of guilty of violating the constitution in 2007, and upheld a verdict that sentenced him to death in absentia.
Finally, for the first time in the history of Pakistan, local body elections were held on December 7, 2013.
Finally, in 1964, Musharraf graduated with a Bachelor's degree in his class of 29th PMA Long Course together with Ali Kuli Khan and his lifelong friend Abdul Aziz Mirza.
Finally, in 1990, President Ghulam Ishaq Khan charged the PPP government with corruption and lack of governance and dismissed the National Assembly and the first Bhutto government.
Finally, in May 1998, India carried out its second nuclear test series (see Pokhran-II) which caused Pakistan to reply with its own test series, also in May 1998 (see Chagai-I and Chagai-II).
Finally, the 1999 coup d'état ended the PML-N's government.
Finally, the joint work led to the promulgation of the first set of the constitution on 23 March 1956—a day when Pakistan celebrates its Republic Day over the adoption of the constitution.
Financial instability is also ongoing, as since 2022, Pakistan's economy and the value of the Pakistani Rupee has plummeted with constant loans required from the IMF.
Finding gain in such enterprises, the elite class amongst politicians, technocrats, bureaucrats and businessmen usually capitalise in this venture.
Finding it difficult to keep Pakistan united, Bhutto launched full-fledged intelligence and military operations to stamp out any separatist movements.
First came independent members and the Jamhoori Watan Party, followed by the Balochistan Awami Party (BAP) and defectors from the Pakistan Muslim League (Q) (PML-Q).
First convened in 1973, the Senate's composition and powers are established by the Article 59 of the Constitution of Pakistan.
First, the Maharajah, then the Kashmiri parliament, both decided to go with India".
First, the Supreme Court validated the Governor-General's actions in case 1 but soon considered such powers as Ultra vires in case 2 and case 3.
Five infantry battalions were reformed and positioned along the northern and eastern borders of Bangladesh.
Five of these MPAs were elected on reserved seats (3 for women and two for minorities) and new PTI MPAs were notified on these seats on 7 July.
Flag of Pakistan is placed over the black embroidered formation sign on the left arm and class course insignias are put up for the Goldish uniform, decorations and awards and the ranks.
Focusing on cultural development, her policies resulted in growth in the rock and pop music industry, and the film industry made a comeback after introducing new talent.
Following Ayub's resignation, his successor, General Yahya Khan, promised to hold parliamentary elections on 7 December 1970.
Following Imran Khan’s removal, political unrest broke out throughout the country, and in the events leading up to the Pakistani 2024 election, many new parties were formed.
Following Pakistan's creation from the British Indian Empire, the nascent state struggled to position itself as a non-aligned member of the international community.
Following Pakistan's objections, he proposed that Sheikh Abdullah administration should be held in "commission" (in abeyance) while the plebiscite was held.
Following Pakistan's withdrawal from the Commonwealth in 1972, Pakistani citizens ceased to be Commonwealth citizens in British law after passage of the Pakistan Act 1973.
Following a contempt of court case, the Supreme Court permanently disqualified Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gillani.
Following a series of hearings at the Supreme Court, the case was adjourned and eventually dismissed after the PPP sanctioned the suspension of Babar Awan on 2 May 2012.
Following an arrest warrant from the district and sessions court in Islamabad, the Islamabad Police and Lahore Police moved to arrest Khan on 14 March 2023.
Following further negotiations, Sheikh Abdullah was released on 29 September.
Following his arrest, Khan's supporters stormed the army headquarters in Rawalpindi and set fire to the house of a senior general.
Following his death, protests and demonstrations led to an "amplified instability" in the Kashmir valley.
Following is the text of Provisional Constitutional Order (PCO) promulgated by Musharraf.
Following its failure to seize Kashmir in 1947, Pakistan supported numerous 'covert cells' in Kashmir using operatives based in its New Delhi embassy.
Following its rise to national government in Pakistan, the PTI backed off from certain commitments in its manifesto what was criticised by its opponents as U-turns.
Following repeated delays by Gillani in following Supreme Court orders to probe corruption allegations he was charged with contempt of court and ousted on 26 April 2012.
Following the 1958 Pakistani military coup, president Muhammad Ayub Khan established a strong military alliance with the United States.
Following the 1958 coup d'etat, the office of prime minister was abolished, leaving the Presidency as the most powerful office in the country.
Following the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War, Pakistan lost control of the region, which became independent as Bangladesh.
Following the 1993 elections, the PPP returned to power under Benazir Bhutto.
Following the 2008 terror attack in Mumbai, India stopped playing bilateral cricket series against Pakistan.
Following the 2014 Peshawar school massacre, he ended his 126-day sit-in on 17 December for national unity.
Following the 2018 general elections, MNA Munaza Hasan from Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf became the third Secretary of the caucus.
Following the Partition of British India, he joined the Pakistan Army and organized the Staff College, Quetta.
Following the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, ISI and CIA ran multibillion-dollar worth Operation Cyclone to thwart the communist regime as well as defeating Soviets in Afghanistan.
Following the Tashkent Agreement, both the sides withdrew to their pre-conflict positions, and agreed not to interfere in each other's internal affairs.
Following the Tashkent Declaration, he was dismissed from the government.
Following the United States–brokered negotiations with Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf, she returned to Pakistan in 2007 to run in the 2008 elections.
Following the accession of the state to India on 26 October 1947, Indian troops were airlifted to Srinagar, the state capital.
Following the adoption of a constitution in India in 1950, Pakistan's lawmakers were incentified to work on their constitution.
Following the alleged discovery of Iraqi arms in Islamabad in February 1973, Bhutto dissolved the Provincial Assembly of Balochistan.
Following the arrest of Imran Khan on 9 May 2023, the supporters and workers of PTI allegedly targeted Pakistan Army's installations.
Following the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi in May 1991, Bhutto visited India to attend his funeral.
Following the attack, Pakistan detained more than 5,000 suspects and made 216 arrests.
Following the decision, the official website of the Supreme Court was hacked by an unknown person.
Following the decline of the Mughals, turbulence in Kangra and invasions of Gorkhas, the hill states fell successively under the control of the Sikhs under Ranjit Singh.
Following the election, Pervez Musharraf acknowledged that the process had been free and fair.
Following the elections, Imran Khan was elected as Prime Minister, receiving 176 votes against Shehbaz Sharif's 96 votes.
Following the elections, six major parties including PML-N claimed there had been large-scale vote rigging and administrative malpractices.
Following the foundations laid in the Constitution, the federal government promulgated The Civil Servants Act, 1973 and each province enacted its own Civil Servants Acts.
Following the general election held in May 2013, Tariq Fatimi and NSA Sartaj Aziz were designated as advisers to the Prime Minister on foreign and strategic policies.
Following the imposition and passing of Resolution 660, 661, and 665, Nawaz sided with the United Nations on the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait.
Following the incident, authorities discovered 300 Soviet sub-machine guns with 50,000 rounds of ammunition and a large amount of money that was to be distributed amongst Baloch separatist groups.
Following the meeting, senior PML-N leader Khawaja Saad Rafique confirmed that Sharif had agreed to engage with regional political stakeholders to help address the situation.
Following the new elections held in 1993, Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto established a strong government after appointing loyalist Farooq Leghari to the presidency.
Following the outbreak of armed fighting, Pakistan sought American help in de-escalating the conflict.
Following the rally, she was again arrested and detained for several weeks in Landhi Jail.
Following the rebellions in the Poonch and Mirpur area and the Pakistan-backed Pashtun tribal invasion from the North-West Frontier Province, the Maharaja asked for Indian military assistance.
Following the secession of East Pakistan, calls for the independence of Balochistan by Baloch nationalists grew immensely.
Following the start of the 1965 war, both the United States and Britain took the view that the conflict was largely Pakistan's fault, and suspended all arms shipments to both India and Pakistan.
Following the strikes, people in Afghanistan’s southeastern Khost province reportedly held celebrations, expressing support for the Afghan military and chanting anti-Pakistan slogans.
Following the surrender, the Indian Army took approximately 90,000 Pakistani servicemen and their Bengali supporters as POWs, making it the largest surrender since World War II.
Following the takeover of the Swat Valley by Islamic militants, cable television broadcasting was banned.
Following the unrest in 2008, secessionist movements got a boost.
Following these events, Musharraf's forces overthrew Sharif's government.
Following this Bhutto and his leftist colleagues were dragged into a two-year-long political trial in the Supreme Court.
Following this attack the "Protection of the Rights of Religious Minorities Bill" was introduced in the Senate of Pakistan to avoid similar attack on minority worship places.
Following this event, the country returned to democracy and the PPP again came in power.
Following this, Musharraf authorised a national security hearing, which continued until his resignation from the army in 2007.
Following this, Nawaz Sharif was elected as prime minister, returning to the post for the third time after a fourteen-year absence, in a democratic transition.
Following this, the Constituent Assembly abolished the monarchy in Kashmir, and adopted an elected Head of State (Sadr-i Riyasat).
Food, tents and water purification devices were handed over.
Foqia says while the highest number of women contested the 2018 general elections, still fewer, i.e.
For Pakistan, the war was a complete and humiliating defeat, a psychological setback that came from a defeat at the hands of rival India.
For a long time, Iqbal wanted a journal to propagate his ideas and the aims and objectives of the All India Muslim League.
For agriculture, the plan outlines an engagement that runs from one end of the supply chain all the way to the other.
For bravery, a number of soldiers and officers on both sides were awarded the highest gallantry award of their respective countries.
For bravery, a number of soldiers and officers were awarded the highest gallantry award of their respective countries.
For by stylizing himself as the representative of the East, Iqbal endeavored to talk on equal terms to Goethe as the representative of West.
For civilians, recruitment is advertised and handled by both the Federal Public Services Commission (FPSC); they are considered employees of the Ministry of Defence.
For example, a subject locally naturalised in Bengal was a British subject there, but not in England nor New South Wales.
For example, according to Mohammad Sohail, shares at the Pakistan Stock Exchange went down in October 2021 over concerns regarding the appointment of the ISI chief.
For example, former Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai received warm welcomes in all of his four visits to Pakistan.
For example, they are welcome at weddings where they will dance as entertainment for the men, and are also welcome among the women.
For him, the aim of life is self-realisation and self-knowledge.
For his basic education, he was enrolled in a school in Sarai Saleh, which was about 4 miles from his village.
For instance, 60 seats for women are reserved in the National Assembly under Article 51 and 17 seats are reserved in the Senate of Pakistan under Article 59.
For instance, Jinnah won support from Shias, Christians, and members of the Ahmadiyya through assurances that the Pakistani government would be neutral on sectarian matters and prevent persecution.
For instance, as Small notes, "Beijing's counterterrorism strategy has been essentially parasitic on the United States being a more important target for transnational militant groups than China.
For many women, especially in rural areas, embroidery is more than just an artistic pursuit—it is a vital livelihood.
For nearly two years, Pakistani authorities largely honored these protections.
For political reasons, Pakistan claims victory in the 1965 war.
For purposes of this election, the state was divided into constituencies containing a population of 40,000 or as near thereto as possible each electing one member.
For scholar Wayne Wilcox, Pakistan was able to find external support to counter "Hindu superiority", returning to the group security position of the early 20th century.
For the first time in the history of the country, Sharif allowed foreign money exchange to be transacted through private money changers.
For the first time since 1958, the country was shifted back to parliamentary democracy with Bhutto as Prime minister of the country.
For the fiscal year ending 30 June 2023, he paid Rs15.59 million in taxes, and his total declared assets were Rs315.95 million.
For the women that do report abuse, they are often harassed by the police and their families; about 33% of women were a victim of physical abuse and did not make any reports.
For this concept, Iqbal is recognised as the "Poet of the East".
For this objective, the town of Morapara was attacked.
For this reason, Khan refused to attend the 1951 Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference in London unless the conference would discuss Kashmir.
For this, the government undertook affirmative measures through introducing several provisions in the Constitution and laws of Pakistan.
Forced and coerced conversions of religious minorities to Islam occurred at the hands of societal actors.
Foreign books need to pass government censors before being reprinted.
Foreign nationals may naturalise as Pakistani citizens after residing in the country for at least five years and showing proficiency in at least one vernacular language of Pakistan.
Foreign relations with the Soviet Union were downplayed.
Foreign satellite TV channels were added during the 1990s.
Form 45, often referred to as the Result of the Count, is crucial for giving detailed information at the polling station level.
Form 46, also referred to as Ballot Paper Account, is to track the logistics of ballot papers at a polling station.
Form 47 does not include postal ballots and is the first form that is directly transmitted to the ECP's central election management office upon completion.
Form 48 is also directly sent to ECP upon completion and any sealed polling material opened for the consolidation is resealed in temper-evident bags.
Form 48, also referred to as Final Consolidated Result, is used for compiling the election results for an electoral constituency within seven days of polling.
Form 49, also known as the Gazetted Form, declares the official election results.
Former Additional Director General Ordnance Factories and Member of the Ordnance Factory Board.
Former Foreign Minister Wang Yi has said that China intends to use Xinjiang as a base of economic development for the region, increasing security and facilitating trade.
Former NDS head Asadullah Khalid posted a video belonging to TTP on his Twitter account where he claimed that the Badaber Camp attack was tit for tat.
Former NDS head, Asadullah Khalid, posted a video belonging to TTP on his Twitter account where he claimed that Badaber Camp attack was tit for tat.
Former Pakistani General Ziauddin Butt (a.k.a.
Former Speaker National Assembly of Pakistan Dr. Fehmida Mirza is the patron in-chief of the caucus.
Former U.S. Attorney General Ramsey Clark observed numerous irregularities and lack of corroborating evidence.
Former U.S. attorney general Ramsey Clark attended the trial, relating that it was a kangaroo court and that Zulfikar did not receive a fair trial.
Former United States Ambassador to the United Nations Zalmay Khalilzad demanded a "complete isolation policy" for Pakistan.
Former and current government officials criticised Nawaz for not providing clear leadership on how to handle the more than 40 militant groups, many of them comprising violent Islamic extremists.
Former citizens who renounced their status may subsequently apply to resume their Pakistani citizenship.
Former science advisor Dr. Mubashir Hassan called Nawaz's privatisation "unconstitutional".
Forty-two projects financed by NDFC have contributed Rs.
Founded in 1967 in Lahore, when a number of prominent left-wing politicians in the country joined hands against the presidency of Ayub Khan, under the leadership of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
Four Param Vir Chakras and eleven Maha Vir Chakras were awarded.
Four battalions of the 70 Infantry Brigade was tasked with a multidirectional attack on 30 June.
Freedom House ranked Pakistan 134th out of 196 countries in its 2010 Freedom of the Press Survey.
Freedom House rated Pakistan as "Not Free" in its report of 2013 and gave it a score of 64 (on a scale of 0–100, with 0 being most free and 100 being least free).
French made Mirage 2000H of the IAF were tasked to drop laser-guided bombs to destroy well-entrenched positions of the Pakistani forces and flew its first sortie on 30 May.
Frequently, no single party holds a majority, and therefore parties must form alliances during or after elections, with coalition governments forming out of negotiations between parties.
From 1846 till the 1947 partition of India, Kashmir was ruled by maharajas of Gulab Singh's Dogra dynasty, as a princely state under British Paramountcy.
From 1922 to 1927, people who entered from the Soviet Union into the territory (now Pakistan) held by the British Empire, attempted to start a communist revolution against the British Indian Empire.
From 1947 to 1950 and 1965–1969, the trade, educational, and cultural exchanges between two countries increased.
From 1947 to 1958 as many as seven Prime Ministers of Pakistan either resigned or were ousted.
From 1947 to 1971, the army service uniform of the Pakistan Army closely resembled to the army uniform of the British Army, but the uniform changed in preference of Sherwani.
From 1947 until 1956, the governor-general of Pakistan acted for the head of state: King George VI (until 1952) and Queen Elizabeth II (from 1952).
From 1948 to 2013, the United States has provided a total of US$30 billion in aid to Pakistan, half of it for military purposes.
From 1964 into the early 1990s, the National Press Trust acted as the government's front to control the press.
From 1967 to 1977, 81% of India's arms imports were from the Soviet Union.
From 1969 to 1973, Bhutto studied for an undergraduate degree at Radcliffe College, Harvard University.
From 1972 onward, the State Bank auditorium in Islamabad functioned as the National Assembly of Pakistan.
From 1976 to 1977, Bhutto was in diplomatic conflict with the United States, which worked covertly to damage the credibility of Bhutto in Pakistan.
From 1986 to 1988, the ANP party was a member of the Movement for Restoration of Democracy.
From 1987 to 2007, "as many as 4,000 people are estimated to have died in sectarian fighting in Pakistan", 300 being killed in 2006.
From 1988 to 1993, the power struggle between the prime minister and presidency continued with the president dismissing the National Assembly on three different occasions.
From 1992 to 1994, the MQM was the target of Operation Clean-up, The period is regarded as the bloodiest period in Karachi's history, with thousands MQM workers and supporters killed or gone missing.
From 1993 to 1995, Musharraf repeatedly visited the United States as part of the delegation of Benazir Bhutto.
From 1999 to 2007, the PTI supported the presidency of General Pervez Musharraf.
From 2002, under General Pervez Musharraf, the Pakistani media faced a decisive development that would lead to a boom in Pakistani electronic media and paved the way to it gaining political clout.
From 2013 to 2018, PTI served as the largest opposition party with 30 seats and had PTI leader Mehmood-ur-Rasheed as opposition leader.
From 2018 to 2022 PTI served as the largest and ruling party in Punjab, with Usman Buzdar as Chief Minister of Punjab.
From 2024 to the present PTI is serving as the opposition party in the Punjab Assembly.
From 21 November, however, Indian forces with Mukti Bahini support entered East Pakistan and remained there in preparation for a formal war that India expected to launch on 6 December.
From 26 April 2013, in the run up to the 2013 elections, both the PML-N and the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) vehemently criticised each other.
From Afghanistan, those militants continue to launch attacks on Pakistan military posts located near the border.
From Bhutto's perspective, the POW problem was more of a humanitarian problem that could be addressed at any time, but the territorial problem could become integrated into India over time.
From February 1944 to January 1947, Afghanistan faced a series of tribal revolts.
From Geneva, Bhutto proceeded to the United Kingdom, undergoing surgery on her mastoid before renting a flat in London's Barbican Estate.
From Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, alone, 35,000 workers were given the opportunity to work in the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia.
From March to May 1999, he ordered secret infiltration of forces into the Kargil district.
From November 8 to 21, 2020, the 5th joint Russian-Pakistani Druzhba 2020 exercise was held.
From Syria, Murtaza campaigned as an independent candidate for Larkana in the Sindh Legislative Assembly election of 1993.
From all the information I have, 95 per cent of Kashmir Muslims do not wish to be or remain Indian citizens.
From every village only one voice will emerge: freedom; from every school only one voice will emerge: freedom; every child will shout, "freedom, freedom, freedom".
From his grandfather's ancestral roots, he was of Syed Iraqi Arab descent.
From mid October to 20 November, the Indian army conducted multiple incursions into East Pakistani territory, generally withdrawing to India after completing their mission.
From the 1930s, Jinnah suffered from tuberculosis; only his sister and a few others close to him were aware of his condition.
From the 1950s to 2000s, several coups were staged that overthrew democratic regimes.
From the Indian perspective, the plebiscite was meant to confirm the accession, which was in all respects already complete, and Pakistan could not aspire to an equal footing with India in the contest.
From the end of the war until February 2000, the Indian stock market rose by more than 30%.
From the outset, the institutional set up in the territory was designed to ensure Pakistan's control of the area's affairs.
From the resignation of President Rafiq Tarar in 2001, to his own resignation in 2008, Musharraf was the President of Pakistan.
From their 130+ covertly occupied observation posts, the occupants had a clear line-of-sight.
From then on, Muhammad Ali Jinnah would receive personal care and support from her as he aged and began to suffer from the lung ailments which would eventually kill him.
From there, he was taken to Dhaka, as a direct flight to Bangladesh was not possible.
From there, the rebels attempted to acquire arms and ammunition for the rebellion and smuggle them into Kashmir.
Full power remained in the hands of the Viceroy, however, who could dissolve legislatures and rule by decree.
Further Afghanistan–Pakistan tensions have arisen concerning a variety of issues, as such relations have been precarious and delicate.
Further both houses of the Indian parliament passed a bill to reorganise the state into two union territories.
Further distribution of funds to the various functionaries is done with the approval of the Chief Election Commissioner.
Further exacerbating the situation was the dislike between Shia leader Imam Khomeini and General Zia ul-Haq.
Further exacerbating the situation, the nation's highest judicial authorities classified such individuals as terrorists.
Further factors for failing standards in state-run institutions include lack of funding, non-utilisation by elite classes, appointments of under-qualified faculty.
Further secessionist uprisings in Balochistan were put down successfully by the provincial governor, General Rahimuddin Khan.
Further to the charges of this arrest, the Senate also passed a resolution petitioning that Musharraf be charged with high treason in relation to the events of 2007.
Further unrest in the region erupted after the 2019 Pulwama attack.
Further, as a gesture of goodwill, nearly 200 soldiers who were sought for war crimes by Bengalis were pardoned by India.
Furthermore, 32% of respondents reported paying bribes to have their tax assessment lowered, and nearly 14% reported receiving fictitious tax assessments until a bribe was paid.
Furthermore, China was also among the last countries to recognise the independence of Bangladesh, refusing to do so until 31 August 1975.
Furthermore, Prime Minister Sharif instructed his administration to open an inquiry and filed a proceeding in Supreme Court regarding the suspension of the writ of the constitution in 2007.
Furthermore, a significant proportion of US economic aid for Pakistan has ended up back in the US as funds are channeled through large US contractors.
Furthermore, candidates found to have opposed Pakistan's ideology or worked against the integrity of the country, after its establishment in 1947, are disqualified.
Furthermore, courts suffer from lack of funds, outside intervention, and deep case backlogs that lead to long trial delays and lengthy pretrial detentions.
Furthermore, drone strikes by both nations, a friendly fire incident at Salala, and an incident involving the arrest of a spy in Lahore further complicated relations for the worse.
Furthermore, he blamed the Chief Justice and the ECP's Chief Commissioner as primarily responsible for the ongoing events and that they should be prosecuted.
Furthermore, in an effort to force refugees back to the areas they have fled (in order to create a sense of normalcy), the government has cut off power and water supply to the IDP camps.
Furthermore, short term visas of several Pakistani visitors, some of who were married to Indians, were also being cancelled.
Furthermore, the President called Indian PM to express his 'sympathy' over the loss from the earthquake.
Furthermore, the Republican Party, presided by Prime Minister Sir Feroze Khan, had been under pressure over the electoral reforms issue at the National Assembly.
Furthermore, the presidential powers have significantly declined with Pakistan's government reversed to a parliamentary democratic republic.
Furthermore, the social acceptance of many of these problems hinders their eradication.
Furthermore, there was an impression created in the print media that negotiations were falling apart.
Future appointments will be made in the same manner as those to the Supreme Court.
G8 nations supported India and condemned the Pakistani violation of the LOC at the Cologne summit.
GI Khan was candidate of PPP in return of supporting Benazir Bhutto in 1988.
Gandhi and Jinnah met with the Hui Ma Fuliang and his delegation as they denounced Japan.
Gandhi had achieved considerable popularity among Muslims because of his work during the war on behalf of killed or imprisoned Muslims.
Gandhi's local style of leadership gained great popularity with the Indian people.
Gandhi's proposal gained broad Hindu support, and was also attractive to many Muslims of the Khilafat faction.
Gandhi's reaction to the Lahore Resolution was muted; he called it "baffling", but told his disciples that Muslims, in common with other people of India, had the right to self-determination.
Gandhi, however, was placed on house arrest in one of the Aga Khan's palaces prior to his release for health reasons in 1944.
Gen Malik called Lt Vikram Batra's for his contribution to the battle and success signal - "Yeh Dil mange More" became legendary.
Gen Malik personally talked with Ravindranath before the battle.
Gender Concerns International reports that women's rights in Pakistan have improved overall, with the increasing number of educated and literate women.
Gender equality was specifically guaranteed by the Constitution of Pakistan adopted in 1973.
Gender is one of the organizing principles of Pakistani society.
General Abdul Waheed was an uptight, strict, and a professional officer with a view of Westernised democracy.
General Akhtar Abdur Rahman of ISI and William Casey of CIA worked together in harmony, and in an atmosphere of mutual trust.
General Ayub Khan appointed a Constitution Commission to draft another part of the constitution under Chief Justice Muhammad Shahabuddin.
General Ayub Khan was Chief Martial Law Administrator, with authority throughout the country.
General Ayub Khan was the president from 1958 to 1969, and General Yahya Khan from 1969 to 1971, Chief Justice Habib Khan Marvath elected first Chairman Senate of Pakistan.
General Babar deemed it an excellent idea, with a significant impact on Afghanistan.
General Gracey argued that Jinnah as Governor-General represented the British Crown of which he himself was an appointee.
General Khan promoted himself to the rank of a five-star field marshal and assumed the presidency.
General Mahmud Ahmed was retired on 8 October 2001 as DG-ISI (The Day United States started its war in Afghanistan).
General Niazi, who surrendered along with 93,000 troops, was viewed with suspicion and contempt upon his return to Pakistan.
General Rahimuddin then purposefully isolated feudal leaders such as Nawab Akbar Khan Bugti and Ataullah Mengal from provincial policy.
General Tikka Khan was flown into Dacca to become Governor of East Bengal.
General Tikka let loose everything at his disposal as if raiding an enemy, not dealing with his own misguided and misled people.
General Yahya Khan arrested Sheikh Mujibur Rahman on charges of sedition and appointed Brigadier (later General) Rahimuddin Khan to preside over a special tribunal dealing with Mujib's case.
General Yahya designated himself as Chief Martial Law Administrator of the country and installed a military government in both East and West-Pakistan.
General Zia declared martial law, suspended the constitution, dissolved all assemblies, and promised elections within ninety days.
General Zia ordered the arrest of Bhutto, his ministers and other leaders of both the Pakistan People's Party and the Pakistan National Alliance.
General Zia ul-Haq, then Army Chief of Staff, overthrew the democratically elected Zulfikar Ali Bhutto government in a military coup on 5 July 1977.
General Zia was killed in a plane crash in 1988, after which Benazir Bhutto, daughter of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, was elected as the Prime Minister of Pakistan.
General Zia-ul-Haq released General Yahya Khan in 1977, who accused Bhutto of breaking Pakistan in 1971.
General Zia-ul-Haq subsequently withdrew the charges against the NAP.
General election were held in Pakistan on Wednesday, 25 July 2018 to elect the members of 15th National Assembly and the four Provincial Assemblies.
General elections under the new Constitution were held on 28 March 1962 and elections to the special seats reserved for women were held on 29 May 1962.
General elections were held in 2018 which saw the coming of PTI for the first time in the government.
General elections were held in October 2002.
General elections were held on 18 February 2008, in which the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) polled the highest votes and won the most seats.
General elections were later held for the National and Provincial Assemblies on 25 February 1985, on non-party basis.
Generally, a copy of the summon is also sent to the Members at their home addresses.
Generally, women living in more developed areas like Lahore, Karachi and Islamabad are more liberal in terms of dressing than women living in less developed areas.
Genocide and atrocities by the military against the Bengali population were alleged during the operation.
Geo-political considerations drew China and Pakistan close at a time when Pakistan was a member of two explicitly anti-communist alliances, CENTO and SEATO.
Geographically Tajikistan is the nearest Central Asian State to Pakistan – fourteen kilometres between two countries.
Germany and Pakistan enjoy closely cordial relations.
Germany has taken large measures to aid the South Asian country in its economic and governmental hardship.
Ghazi stated that a meeting was eventually held between the prime minister and the chief of army staff, and a press conference was held to announce the decision to withdraw the tweet.
Gilgit's population did not favour the State's accession to India.
Gilgit-Baltistan thus gains province-like status without actually being conferred such status constitutionally.
Gillani became Pakistan's first Prime Minister to be convicted while holding office and was later sentenced and disqualified.
Gillani is prudently criticised for a prolonged era of stagflation, in which fundamental economic problems were ignored, the government was mismanaged and corruption was endemic.
Gillani's strategy succeeded when Pervez Musharraf announced his resignation in an address to the nation, ending his nine-year-long reign on 18 August 2008.
Girls live in fear due to extremist policies.
Girls living in rural areas are encouraged not to go to school because they are needed in the home to do work at a young age.
Given the support that Pakistan had given them during the War in Afghanistan, many Pakistanis saw this as a betrayal that sold out Pakistani interests in favour of India.
Given the very few women's shelters in the country, victims have limited ability to escape from violent situations.
Goethe bemoans the West having become too materialistic in outlook, and expects the East will provide a message of hope to resuscitate spiritual values.
Gohar said Khan told his party to sit in opposition nationally rather than join a coalition with rival parties, including the Pakistan Muslim League (N) and Pakistan Peoples Party.
Gokhale, a Hindu, later stated that Jinnah "has true stuff in him, and that freedom from all sectarian prejudice which will make him the best ambassador of Hindu–Muslim Unity".
Government and military officials denied involvement.
Government ministers met in 2005 to explore potential trade opportunities.
Government officials who are found to take advantage of their official position to commit acts of rape (e.g.
Governments are defeated; Prime Ministers come and go; Ministers come and go; but you stay on, and therefore, there is a very great responsibility placed on your shoulders ...
Governor General Mohammad Ali Jinnah ordered his Army Chief General Douglas Gracey to move Pakistani troops to Kashmir at once.
Governor of Punjab Omar Sarfaraz Cheema refused to administer the oath to newly elected Chief Minister Hamza Shahbaz.
Gradually the influence of socialism in public policies was dismantled.
Greece established an embassy in Islamabad in 1987.
Growing political and civil disorder led Bhutto to engage in talks with PNA leaders, resulting in an agreement to dissolve the assemblies and hold fresh elections under a government of national unity.
Guerrilla attacks intensified, as did Pakistani and Razakar reprisals on civilian populations.
Guerrilla operations, which slackened during the training phase, picked up after August.
Gul was too powerful for Bhutto to force him into retirement, but in May 1989 she transferred him from the ISI to another section of the military, placing a more trusted military figure in his role.
Gulab Singh took the title of the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir.
Gulalai said he had sent her "inappropriate text messages", with the first sent in October 2013.
Guyana along with Suriname is one of the only 2 member states of the OIC in the Americas.
Had General Ayub Khan run fair elections, Ms. Fatima Jinnah of Pakistan would have become the first Muslim President of the largest Muslim country in the world.
Had the war continued for a few more days, we would have gained a decisive victory.
Hafizur Rahman, A. K. Khan, Muhammad Ibrahim and Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, the future prime minister.
Hajra Khan is the captain of Pakistan's women's football team.
Hajra has chosen a very tough path for herself.
Hamdullah Fitrat, deputy spokesman for the Afghan government, stated that the attacks targeted four separate locations in Barmal and that the victims were refugees.
Hamid Khan oversaw the II Corps offensive into the Indian state of Punjab.
Hamidullah Fetrat, deputy spokesperson for the caretaker government, denied Asif's claim that Afghanistan requested money.
Hardly anyone can be credited with creating a nation-state.
Hari Singh signed the Instrument of Accession on 26 October 1947, which was accepted by the Governor General of India the next day.
Hari Singh, the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir, was facing an uprising by his Muslim subjects in Poonch, and lost control in portions of the western districts.
Harshil Mehta, South Asia's political observer, has commented that it is "an urgent need to replace these laws" in his article in [[Outlook (Indian magazine)|Outlook'].
Hashmi was removed from the party's presidency after his controversial remarks towards the country's armed forces.
Having been developed under both Bhutto and Zia, the nuclear development programme had fully matured by the late 1980s.
Having encountered her later in life, Muñoz regarded Bhutto as a "charming and intelligent" woman.
Having joined government service in 1935 as Police Inspector, he woud later serve as Superintendent (SP) in cities such as Lahore.
Having spent 9 months on death row, he had allegedly endured 25 days without fresh water at that point.
Having won, he flew back to Pakistan in November to take up his new position.
Hayat Khan had a separate plan, involving the Muslim League National Guard and the militant Pashtun tribes from the Frontier regions.
He [Jinnah] wanted to see the Muslims of the world united under the banner of Islam as an effective check against the aggressive designs of their enemies.
He accepted the commission's findings but said he had not received a copy.
He accused the US of undermining peace with the Pakistani Taliban by killing its leader Hakimullah Mehsud in a drone strike in 2013.
He achieved the all-rounder's triple—3,000 runs and 300 wickets—in 75 Tests, becoming among the first four players to reach it.
He added that he was portrayed at home and abroad as the military's preferred candidate, fuelling opposition claims that he was "selected" rather than elected.
He added the suspicion that Bhutto had been involved in her brother's death.
He addressed the Joint Session of the Parliament on 20 September 2008.
He addressed the UN Sixth Committee on Aggression that October and led Pakistan's delegation to the first UN Conference on the Law of the Sea in 1958.
He adopted the Hamoodur Rahman Commission's recommendations and authorised large-scale courts-martial of army officers tainted by their role in East Pakistan.
He advocated for neutral umpiring during his captaincy.
He aimed to provide free treatment to underprivileged patients, and as of 2024, 70% of patients receive free care.
He alleged US involvement in his removal, blaming Washington for opposing his foreign policy that sought closer relations with China and Russia.
He alleged that the Inter-Services Intelligence were behind the attack.
He also advocated for an independent Muslim state.
He also announced 500 new scholarships for students in Pakistan to study in Australia.
He also announced that he would pull Pakistan out of the US-led war on terror and bring peace in the Pashtun tribal belt.
He also briefly dated Susannah Constantine, whom he met through Lulu Blacker; their relationship lasted about a year.
He also closely worked with Ibrahim Hisham during his stay at the Aligarh Muslim University.
He also condemned the "forced conversion" of Hindu girls in Sindh.
He also declared four goats worth Rs200,000.
He also directed the attempted advance towards Longewala, though this effort was ultimately repelled by Indian forces.
He also embarked on a train march from Lahore to Peshawar as part of his campaign to oust Benazir.
He also expressed the view that the original police investigation had been deliberately botched.
He also forfeited property worth US$8.3 million (£5.7 million) and paid a fine of US$500,000.
He also had a brief relationship with a Bengali woman called Shamim K. Hussain, also known as Black Beauty.
He also had an excellent academic standing from his college and university studies.
He also had close family ties to the prominent Kheshgi family.
He also has a residence in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, known as the Sharif Villa, where he lived during his years in exile.
He also held cabinet portfolio as the first foreign minister, defence minister, and frontier regions minister from 1947 until his assassination in 1951.
He also improved the nation's infrastructure and spurred the growth of digital telecommunication.
He also introduced agricultural reforms preventing anyone from occupying more than 500 acres of irrigated and 1000 acres of unirrigated land.
He also militarily put down all civil disobedience movements, effectively leading to unprecedented social stability within the province.
He also noted that the army chief and the prime minister agreed on following correct procedures of appointment according to the Constitution.
He also participated in the Lahore and Sialkot war zones during the conflict.
He also played an important role in enactment of Trade Union Act of 1926 which gave trade union movement legal cover to organise themselves.
He also promised to construct a third port in Keti Bandar on the southern coast of Thatta District.
He also promised to eliminate the post of Patwari and establish a computerised and professional land record system.
He also promoted the expansion of Muslim banking enterprises outside of British India, particularly in Singapore.
He also promulgated the 1962 constitution.
He also proposed laws regarding Qisas and Diyat, Islamic penal laws governing retribution (qisas) and compensation (diyat) in crimes involving bodily injury.
He also quickly purged the government of political enemies, notably Ziauddin and national airline chief Shahid Khaqan Abbassi.
He also reclaimed five thousand square miles (13,000 km2) of Indian-held territory through the Simla Agreement, signed between India and Pakistan in July 1972.
He also reportedly threatened India by saying to Rajiv Gandhi "If your forces cross our border an inch... We are going to annihilate your (cities)...".
He also said, "No government on earth has received more high-level attention" than Pakistan.
He also served as the fifth commander-in-chief of the Pakistan Army from 1966 to 1971.
He also sought to hinder her chances by declaring that the election would be held on a non-party basis, with candidates standing as individuals rather than as representatives of a political party.
He also started living in Delhi on Aurangzeb Road (now Dr. A.P.J.
He also stated that even 'democratic' and 'liberal' Indians refuse to carry a single Pakistani news channel on their cable or any Pakistani op-ed writers in their newspapers.
He also studied in the U.K., before moving to the U.S., where he earned his MBA from Harvard.
He also wrote a book on Economics[title missing] that is now rare.
He also wrote out a draft plan titled Armed Revolt inside Kashmir and gave it to Mian Iftikharuddin to be passed on to the Pakistan's Prime Minister.
He and Barack Obama committed to strengthening relations and advancing shared interests for a prosperous Pakistan.
He and Canadian-Pakistani cleric Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri formed a "de facto" alliance to mobilise supporters for a regime-change campaign against Sharif.
He announced he would pull Pakistan from the US-led war on terror and said he would work to bring peace to the Pashtun tribal belt.
He announced his return as a domestic league coach in May 2003.
He announced plans for protests and to block NATO's supply lines to Afghanistan if drone attacks, which he said "fanned fanaticism," continued.
He announced that PTI would introduce a uniform education system aimed at providing equal opportunities for all children.
He appeared before the Lahore High Court in both civil and criminal matters.
He appointed Gen. Muhammad Musa as the new commander-in-chief.
He appointed General Muhammad Ayub Khan, Commander-in-Chief of the Army, as the Chief Martial Law Administrator.
He arranged 4,000 rifles for the rebellion by diverting them from the Army stores.
He arrested Bhutto and his ministers, as well as other leaders of both the PPP and the PNA.
He arrived at Royal Grammar School Worcester in England in September 1971 and performed well in cricket there.
He asked the Law Ministry and the Council of Islamic Ideology (under the Ministry of Religious Affairs) to build a consensus for the amendments to the laws.
He asserts that an individual can never aspire to higher dimensions unless he learns of the nature of spirituality.
He attended Aitchison College and Cathedral School in Lahore.
He attracted much attention from the British public when his involvement in the Christine Keeler affair was revealed.
He banned women from participating and from being spectators of sports and promoted purdah.
He became a member of the National Assembly of Pakistan for the first time in the 2002 election.
He became an admirer of the Parsi British Indian political leaders Dadabhai Naoroji and Sir Pherozeshah Mehta.
He became the first Asian and eighth non-Australian to win the International Cricketer of the Year in 1989.
He became the first in Pakistan elections history to contest and win all five constituencies, surpassing Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, who contested four and won three in 1970.
He began his international cricket career in a 1971 Test series against England.
He believed that India intended to invade Pakistan twice or thrice during the period 1947–1954.
He believed that farmers needed to feel psychologically secure for the country to achieve self-sufficiency in food.
He believed that the judicial authorities should be given the same powers which they used to enjoy during the British Indian Empire.
He brought back Wasim Akram in the 35th over after Allan Lamb and Neil Fairbrother had added 72 runs.
He brought in Abdul Qadeer Khan, strengthened the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission, and initiated the country's nuclear program which he regarded as a 'national priority'.
He called for a caretaker government to be formed of non-politicians, and for fresh elections.
He called the media "unethical" for spreading it, and PTI filed a complaint against the channels involved.
He came close to receiving the death sentence based on the hijacking case.
He came from a long line of government officials as his great-grandfather was a tax collector while his maternal grandfather was a qazi (judge).
He came to own over 200 suits, which he wore with heavily starched shirts with detachable collars, and as a barrister took pride in never wearing the same silk tie twice.
He campaigned against Sharif after the Panama Papers leak in 2016, leading protests and calling for his resignation over corruption allegations.
He campaigned for the restoration of the independent judges removed by emergency government decree and Musharraf's departure.
He can run provincial government directly.
He can use emergency powers on advice of Prime Minister and cabinet.
He challenged PML-N President Nawaz Sharif to a live debate, a challenge which PML-N was quick to decline.
He charts the stages through which the "Self" has to pass before finally arriving at its point of perfection, enabling the knower of the "Self" to become a vice-regent of God.
He claimed that Pakistan's economic outlook had become more stable.
He claimed that this was necessary owing to her government's corruption and inability to maintain law and order.
He clarified Sharif's and Bhutto's right to return to Pakistan.
He closed his speech saying, "Our struggle is for our freedom.
He communicated the Maharaja's willingness to accede to India.
He completed his matriculation from Bombay University.
He conceded the defeat of the PML (Q) and pledged to work with the new Parliament.
He concluded his campaign in South Punjab's Seraiki belt by addressing rallies in various cities.
He contested the 2018 Pakistani general election from five constituencies and became the first in Pakistan's electoral history to win all of them.
He convinced Pakistan to step back from hostilities and to disband the Kashmiri training camps in its territory.
He could not meet Bhutto—who was in Yemen as part of a tour of the Gulf states—but met with President Khan, informing him that the U.S. would not support Pakistani military action.
He could not secure adoption of the Fourteen Points, as the League meeting in Delhi at which he hoped to gain a vote instead dissolved into chaotic argument.
He created a cabinet of technocrats, diplomats, and military officers.
He currently faces non-bailable arrest warrants for the Al-Azizia corruption case.
He dated German MTV host Kristiane Backer, introducing her to Islam.
He decided to stay independent because he expected that the State's Muslims would be unhappy with accession to India, and the Hindus and Sikhs would become vulnerable if he joined Pakistan.
He demanded that Mountbatten divide the army prior to independence, which would take at least a year.
He denied paternity, saying he does not live in California or England and welcomes White to Pakistan to present his side in court.
He described Pakistani society and laws as hostile towards LGBTQ people.
He described the central building, which houses the director general's office on the top floor, as "a modern structure with a round, echoing lobby".
He designated Asad Umar as finance minister for his prospective government.
He developed a manifesto outlining the program's development and selected Munir Ahmad Khan to lead it.
He did not know the rules of Persian prose writing.
He did not play any significant role in Pakistan's proxy war in the 1979–1989 Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
He did not support Indian involvement in World War I and stayed in close touch with Muslim political leaders such as Mohammad Ali Jouhar and Muhammad Ali Jinnah.
He died from a stroke on 10 August 1980 in Rawalpindi, Punjab.
He died of a heart attack on 13 November 1969, his 70th birthday.
He dismissed the claims as "absolutely baseless".
He dismissed the government of Sir Feroz Khan Noon, dissolved the National Assembly of Pakistan and the provincial legislatures.
He dismissed the governments in Balochistan and the North-West Frontier Province once more.
He dissolved the National Assembly of Pakistan and all provincial assemblies, suspended the Constitution, and imposed martial law.
He earned the nomination of the Pakistan Muslim League (PML) and was shocked when Fatima Jinnah was nominated by the Combined Opposition Parties.
He emerged from hiding on 14 November to join a student protest at the University of the Punjab.
He ended the campaign by addressing a rally in Islamabad via video link from his hospital bed.
He enjoyed support from President Dwight Eisenhower in the 1950s and, working with Prime Minister Ali Khan, forged a military alliance with the United States against regional communism.
He enjoys the confidence of the majority of the members of the National Assembly.
He envisaged autonomous Muslim regions in India.
He espoused a socialist platform different from his sister's and called for internal elections within the PPP, which could have resulted in the removal of Bhutto.
He established branches of the RSS in Jammu and later in the Kashmir Valley.
He established separate shariat judicial courts and court benches to judge legal cases using Islamic doctrine.
He expanded the nuclear energy program, and continued an atomic programme while following a policy of deliberate nuclear ambiguity.
He expressed criticism of Western envoys who urged Pakistan to support the UN resolution.
He faced bitter domestic criticism for attempting to vilify Khan, specifically from opposition leader Benazir Bhutto.
He faced numerous challenges, including bringing an end to US drone strikes and Taliban attacks while also tackling a crippled economy.
He faced serious altercations with, and public criticism from, air chief Air Marshal Asghar Khan for hiding the details of the war.
He felt that in order to work towards real and responsible democracy, the country must have what he called "controlled democracy".
He formed a coalition between his Pakistan Muslim League - Nawaz (PMLN) party and the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP).
He fought in the Second World War on the British side against the Imperial Japanese Army.
He further stated that the establishment, by facilitating electoral victories for the PML-N and PPP, had effectively reduced them to "appendages" within the broader hybrid framework.
He further stated, "People have been referring to this as hiding in plain sight.
He graduated from the Government College University (GCU) with an art and business degree and then received a law degree from the Law College of Punjab University in Lahore.
He graduated with a master's degree from RCDS and returned to Pakistan soon after.
He had "in-depth discussions" with President Pervez Musharraf and Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz.
He had a dog named Whiskey that gave him a "lifelong love for dogs".
He had a plan to develop good relations with both India and Pakistan, supplying arms and money to both, and to maintain neutrality from their intense border feuds.
He had a relationship with Ana-Luisa (Sita) White, daughter of industrialist Gordon White.
He had a sixth sense: he could see around corners.
He had also held office for a truncated term (1990–1993), during which he had promised to adopt Islamic law as the supreme law of Pakistan.
He had been accused of disseminating controversial, blasphemous views during a lecture at the Islamabad Model College.
He had been contemplating replacing Ayub Khan, and it seems that Ayub knew.
He had been hospitalised a year prior due to the disease.
He had not wanted Bhutto to win, and his choice of date may have been deliberately chosen to coincide with the date when Bhutto was projected to give birth, thus hindering her ability to campaign.
He had the constitutional authority to choose and appoint the Prime Minister in his discretion who got majority votes from the National Assembly.
He had the second-highest all-time Test batting average of 61.86 playing at number six in the batting order.
He has alleged that his imprisonment is politically motivated, blaming the post-2022 military establishment and the Shehbaz Sharif government, both of which deny the claim.
He has been a member of the National Assembly of Pakistan since 29 February 2024.
He has been serving as Patron-in-Chief of the Lahore Heritage Revival Authority since 16 March 2025.
He has described himself as a pacifist and anti-war and has opposed military interventions, especially in Afghanistan, criticising Pakistan's role in the U.S.-led war on terror.
He has opposed the Iraq War, the Russian Invasion of Ukraine, the Gaza genocide, and the Israeli invasion of Lebanon.
He has previously criticised America's "war on terror".
He has since been sentenced to 14 years in the Al-Qadir Trust case and, as of December 2024, faced 186 cases across Pakistan.
He has two younger brothers: Shehbaz Sharif and the late Abbas Sharif, both of whom are politicians.
He has won the most Player of the Series awards for Pakistan in Test cricket, ranking fourth overall in Test history.
He helped to found the newspaper Dawn in the early 1940s in Delhi; it helped to spread the League's message and eventually became the major English-language newspaper of Pakistan.
He highly praised the work of Iqbal in Persian.
He himself had a background of following Nizari Isma'ili branch of Shia Islam in Gujarat, though he later followed Twelver Shi'a teachings.
He himself vowed this in several interviews.
He hung a picture of Zardari up in the guest toilet of his house as an act of disrespect to his brother-in-law.
He imposed martial law, backed by the East Pakistan Rifles, and dismissed the East Bengal Legislative Assembly.
He initially held the Ministry of Interior portfolio after forming his cabinet.
He introduced an economy based on privatisation and economic liberalisation to reverse the nationalisation by Zulfikar Bhutto, notably for banks and industries.
He is a member of the European Parliament Friends of India Group, Karim was also responsible for opening up Europe to free trade with India.
He is actively working on the implementation of the Act, inclusion of transgender men in policies, and for visibility of transgender men in Pakistan.
He is also blamed for not doing enough to tackle the significant economic disparity between East and West Pakistan.
He is also known in Pakistani society as Hakim ul-Ummat (lit.
He is buried at Mazar-e-Quaid, the mausoleum built for Jinnah in Karachi.
He is commonly referred to by the honorific Allamah (Persian: علامه, transl.
He is determined to reduce the military's influence in Pakistani politics, and he believes that this is the only way to ensure that the country becomes more democratic.
He is known as Quaid-e-Azam (meaning "Great Leader") in Pakistan.
He is often considered one of Pakistan's greatest leaders and referred to as the Quaid-e-Awām ("the People's Leader").
He is often known by the title "Allama" within Pakistan.
He is revered in Pakistan as the Quaid-e-Azam ("Great Leader") and Baba-e-Qaum ("Father of the Nation").
He is the founder of the political party Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) and was its chairman from 1996 to 2023.
He is the longest-serving prime minister in the country's history, having served a total of more than 9 years across three tenures, with each term ending in his ousting.
He is the widower of Benazir Bhutto, who twice served as Prime Minister of Pakistan.
He issued an AI-generated message urging supporters to celebrate the electoral win, in which at least 90 candidates backed by him, all of whom were forced to run as independents, won seats.
He joined as a head constable and retired as a deputy superintendent.
He joined the following year, although he remained a member of the Congress as well and stressed that League membership took second priority to the "greater national cause" of an independent India.
He justified this as analogous to the American Electoral College and cited Thomas Jefferson as his inspiration.
He landed at Jinnah International Airport, Karachi, via a chartered Emirates flight with Pakistani journalists and foreign news correspondents.
He later brought England's John Hampshire and John Holder for the home series against India in 1989–90.
He later claimed in his official biography that General Pervez Musharraf had moved nuclear warheads without informing him.
He later issued a Legal Framework Order (LFO), under which the first ever general elections were held on 7 December 1970.
He launched Operation Gibraltar against India in 1965, leading to an all-out war.
He learned the Arabic and Persian languages from his teacher, Syed Mir Hassan, the head of the madrasa and professor of Arabic at Scotch Mission College in Sialkot, where he matriculated in 1893.
He led Pakistan to its first-ever Test series victories in India and England during 1987.
He left a deep and respected legacy in Pakistan.
He legalised foreign money exchange to be transacted through private money exchangers.
He likes music and movies and has a good sense of humour.
He maintained an alliance with General Rahimuddin Khan, Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee.
He managed to persuade Justice Mahajan to accept the post of Prime Minister (but not to arrive for another month, for procedural reasons).
He married British-Pakistani journalist Reham Khan in January 2015, but they divorced in October the same year.
He married Jemima Goldsmith in 1995, had two sons, and divorced in 2004 due to her difficulty adjusting to life in Pakistan.
He married Josephine Hildreth, the daughter of Horace Hildreth, the U.S. ambassador to Pakistan.
He married his spiritual guide Bushra Bibi on 18 February 2018.
He named three retired military officers and a judge as provincial administrators on 21 October.
He narrowly escaped the Mumbai attacks at Hotel Taj in November 2008.
He nominated Mahmood Khan for Chief Minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and Usman Buzdar for Chief Minister of Punjab.
He nominated Pervez Khattak to lead his party's first provincial government.
He occasionally appeared as a cricket commentator on Star TV.
He offered his resignation, which Gandhi declined.
He offered to take a paternity test in Pakistan and said he would accept the decision of the Pakistani courts.
He often engaged in discussions about these poets, especially appreciating conversations with individuals fluent in English who could converse on such literary topics.
He openly criticised Chief Justice Sajad Alishah, inviting a notice of contempt.
He opposed Gandhi, but the tide of Indian opinion was against him.
He opposed the 2010 military operation in Kala Dhaka.
He oversaw the development and completion of mega projects such as hydroelectric dams, power stations, and barrages all over the country.
He oversaw the launch of Operation Chengiz Khan, a preemptive strike on Indian airbases, aimed at crippling Indian airpower and initiating hostilities.
He overthrew Nawaz Sharif's government in the 1999 coup d'état and proclaimed himself the chief executive of Pakistan, under martial law.
He paid Rs11.97 million for a Shahrah-e-Dastoor apartment and declared Rs11.47 million for his Bani Gala residence.
He played a key role in consolidating the state of Pakistan, much as Muhammad Ali Jinnah did in founding it.
He played a pivotal role in sustaining the support for President Ayub Khan's campaign in the 1965 presidential elections against Fatima Jinnah.
He played his last Test in January 1992 against Sri Lanka and retired after leading Pakistan to victory in the 1992 Cricket World Cup final.
He pledged to continue supporting Kashmiri freedom struggle morally and diplomatically...(.
He presented the Objectives Resolution, a prelude to future constitutions, in the Legislative Assembly.
He promised to hold accountable the killers behind the assassination of Benazir Bhutto and stated that the local government system is important for the prosperity of Pakistan.
He promulgated the Objectives Resolution in 1949, which stipulated Pakistan to be an Islamic democracy.
He proposed a temporary government along the lines which Liaquat and Desai had agreed.
He provided diplomatic support to Indonesia during the Indonesian National Revolution, declaring a public holiday in Pakistan on the occasion of Indonesia's independence.
He put forth proposals that he hoped might satisfy a broad range of Muslims and reunite the League, calling for mandatory representation for Muslims in legislatures and cabinets.
He raised funds by touring the country, with most donations coming from common people.
He ran for a seat in the National Assembly from NA-130 Lahore-XIV against jailed PTI senior Yasmin Rashid.
He ran for the National Assembly in the 1997 election from the constituencies — NA-53 Mianwali and NA-94 Lahore — as a PTI candidate but lost both to the Pakistan Muslim League (N) (PML (N)).
He received an intermediate level with the Faculty of Arts diploma in 1895.
He received considerable recognition from the Punjabi elite after his return from England in 1908, and he was closely associated with Mian Muhammad Shafi.
He received his early education at home before attending school in Karnal.
He received his promotion to captain on 17 October 1927.
He received the Imtiazi Sanad medal for gallantry.
He received the Wetherell Award for leading all-rounder in English first-class cricket in 1976 and 1980.
He received vote of confidence on 24 March 1985.
He recorded his best Test figures, taking 8 wickets for 58 runs against Sri Lanka in 1981–82.
He refused to accept Yahya Khan's scheme to appoint Bengali politician Nurul Amin as prime minister, with Bhutto as deputy prime minister.
He refused to cooperate with the bipartisan committee; PTI filed a defamation suit against Gulalai, which IDS Bulletin described as filed by Khan himself.
He regarded Western economic ideologies as incompatible with the Muslim world and Islamic economics as a middle ground in the conflict between capitalism and communism.
He remained as Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir until his death in 1982.
He remained in Britain for most of the period 1930 through 1934, practising as a barrister before the Privy Council, where he dealt with a number of India-related cases.
He remained in prison due to other convictions and pending charges.
He remained titular president of the League,[d] but declined to travel to India to preside over its 1933 session in April, writing that he could not possibly return there until the end of the year.
He removed the constitution's Eighth Amendment which had been used by successive presidents to oust both Bhutto and himself from office.
He renamed the 'Command and Staff College' from 'Army Staff College'.
He repeatedly rejected the notion that Pakistan would be a theocracy, with his assertment that Pakistan would be a state of equal rights and opportunities.
He replaced him with Acting Chief Justice Javed Iqbal.
He reportedly befriended the youtuber in 2023 and maintained close contact with her during the four-day military conflict.
He reportedly suspended the Constitution of Pakistan of 1956 on 7 October 1958, and appointed Commander-in-Chief of the Pakistan Army General Ayub Khan as the first Chief Martial Law Administrator.
He resigned in 1973 over Bhutto's dismissal of the Balochistan provincial government.
He restructured the League along the lines of the Congress, putting most power in a Working Committee, which he appointed.
He retired from international cricket after the 1987 Cricket World Cup.
He returned to Karachi for the 1 July opening ceremony for the State Bank of Pakistan, at which he spoke.
He returned to the premiership after the Pakistan Muslim League (N) (PML-N) was elected in 1997, and served until his removal in 1999 by military takeover by General Pervez Musharraf.
He returned under Javed Miandad's captaincy in the 1984–85 home series against Sri Lanka.
He ruled out Al-Qaeda ties with the militant groups in Kashmir including Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed.
He ruled out a complete lockdown, citing extreme poverty.
He said Tyrian could join their family in London, leaving the decision to her due to her relationship with his and Jemima's sons.
He said he had not sent "indecent messages" to Gulalai and "challenge[d] the [proposed] committee to find [the indecent texts] if there are any".
He said of his past: "I have never claimed to be an angel.
He said that United States has never been closer with Pakistan than it is currently under his administration.
He said that if Pakistan does not stop backing radicalism and extremism, the United States should suspend all aid to it and treat it as a second North Korea.
He said that investors in the industry would not be asked about their source of income for the year and removed withholding tax for all construction sectors except cement and steel.
He said that strict lockdowns would devastate Pakistan's economy and lead to starvation.
He said that the people's movement for plebiscite would not die even though India thought it did when Sheikh Abdullah died.
He said that there no evidence to verify media reports of an Al-Qaeda presence in the state.
He said the charges were politically motivated.
He said the first, on 1 January 2018, occurred while Bushra was still in iddat, and alleged he believed marrying on that date would help him become prime minister.
He said these were the last items he had, having earlier auctioned the rest for Shaukat Khanum Hospital.
He said, "I've been called Taliban Khan for supporting the tribal Pashtuns and I've been called part of a Jewish conspiracy to take over Pakistan.
He said, "The Pakistan I want to lead must have good relationships with everyone, especially the United States.
He said: "I believe he had a fair and transparent trial and I support the guilty verdict.
He says the plan was to leave Muslims alone and bulldoze them freely.
He secured the right to speak for the Muslim-led Bengali and Punjabi provincial governments in the central government in New Delhi ("the centre").
He sent letters to both, the King of Jordan and the King of Saudi Arabia.
He sent word to the Indian leaders through Mahajan that he was willing to accede to India but needed more time to implement political reforms.
He served in Iraq, Italy and North Africa.
He showed much skill as a parliamentarian, organising many Indian members to work with the Swaraj Party, and continued to press demands for full responsible government.
He sold property in Ferozewala for Rs70 million and bought two Shahrah-e-Dastoor apartments for Rs10.19 million.
He stated, 'You can't lead a revolution from behind bulletproof glass,' and claimed that he had conquered the fear of dying 17 years ago.
He stated: I remember that there was a massive rigging in 1987 elections.
He stayed out from public events and wrote down his memoirs in the form of notes that remain unpublished.
He stood first in grade one and had started versifying under the pen-name of Iqbal while still in class nine, being published in literary journals as a teenager.
He strengthened Arab relations and developed Sino-Pakistani relations.
He struck a deal with , which was brokered by King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, and went into exile for a period of ten years.
He studied at the Royal College of Defence Studies (RCDS) in Britain during 1990–91.
He submitted his thesis to Commandant General Antony Walker who regarded Musharraf as one of his finest students he had seen in his entire career.
He subsequently denied making these comments, but the Post made available an audio recording of the interview, in which Musharraf could be heard making the quoted remarks.
He subsequently lived in Dubai in self-imposed exile.
He subsidized fertilizers and modernized agriculture through irrigation development and spurred industrial growth with liberal tax benefits.
He successfully convinced American officials that the Pakistani military was the strongest and most capable institution to govern the country.
He suggested that only the defense and communications sectors should be public, with all other industries open to private enterprise.
He supported General Musharraf's 1999 Pakistani coup d'état.
He supported Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi's proposal for a special committee to investigate the claims.
He supported the Afghan peace process and facilitated trade by inaugurating a 24/7 border crossing with Afghanistan.
He suspended all fundamental rights guaranteed in the 1973 Constitution.
He suspended the Constitution, imposed a state of emergency, and fired the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court again.
He suspended the country's democratic process and imposed two states of emergency, leading to his conviction for treason.
He talked about the need for a return to democracy and to respect human rights.
He taught Arabic at the Oriental College, Lahore, from 1899 until 1903, during which time he wrote prolifically.
He termed this visit as a "medical visit" but made a strong plea for military aid which was not considered due to India's opposition.
He testified Musharraf began preparations of a coup after the Kargil conflict.
He then also became an activist in the Pakistan Movement.
He then established Pakistan's gas-centrifuge program based on the URENCO's Zippe-type centrifuge.
He then said he could guarantee victory if she would allow him to prepare for the conflict on his terms, and set a date for it; Gandhi accepted his conditions.
He then went on a speaking and lectureship tour through the Middle East, Europe, and the United States.
He toured Pakistan, delivering speeches to large crowds and planning his political comeback.
He travelled across Europe and West Asia to garner political and financial support for the League.
He urged his people to turn every house into a fort of resistance.
He used to go to school on a mule's back and was shifted to a school in Haripur, where he started living with his grandmother.
He was a cabinet member during president Iskandar Mirza's tenure, holding various ministries during president Ayub Khan's military rule from 1958.
He was a compromise candidate when two older, better-known Muslims who were seeking the post deadlocked.
He was a democratic political theorist who promoted parliamentarism in British India.
He was a secularist and repealed the Hudood Ordinances, an achievement Bhutto had been unable to make.
He was accused of operating a covert terror network within Balochistan.
He was active in the Khilafat Movement, and was among the founding fathers of Jamia Millia Islamia which was established at Aligarh in October 1920.
He was airlifted from Narowal to Lahore for surgery where he was said to be in stable condition.
He was also accused of receiving kickbacks and gained the nickname "Mr Ten Percent".
He was also close to former ISI chief Ahmed Shuja Pasha.
He was also declared an absconder by a Pakistani court; however, the Islamabad High Court later granted him protective bail in the Avenfield and Al-Azizia cases.
He was also disqualified from holding any public office for 10 years following his release from prison.
He was also elected Chairman of the League's Central Parliamentary Board.
He was also given the offer of being the first vice-chancellor of Jamia Millia Islamia by Mahatma Gandhi, which he refused.
He was also jailed in 1953 while Sheikh's dissident deputy, Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad was appointed as the new Prime Minister of the state.
He was also the founder and first chairman of the Pakistan People's Party (PPP) from 1967 until his execution in 1979.
He was appointed as chairman of Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission (PAEC) on 20 January 1972, at the Multan Conference of senior scientists and engineers.
He was appointed as colonel commandant of the Military Police while serving as the Defence secretary in the Liaquat administration.
He was arrested during the protest and sent to the Central Jail, Dera Ghazi Khan, where he spent a week before release.
He was arrested in 2013, put under solitary confinement in 2014, and sentenced to death by a district and sessions court in Multan on 21 December 2019.
He was asked to return as captain by General Zia-ul-Haq, and he accepted the offer.
He was awarded the Padma Bhushan by the Government of India, in 1973, in the Civil service category, for his contributions during the Indo-Pakistani war of 1971.
He was born in Poona, India, and was educated at Doon School.
He was born to Shah Nawaz Bhutto and Khursheed Begum near Larkana.
He was called on to join the Cabinet as Defence Minister by Prime Minister H.S.
He was called to the Bar at the Inner Temple of London in 1922 but never practised.
He was cleared of attempted murder and kidnapping charges.
He was commissioned in the artillery regiment as second lieutenant and posted near the Indo-Pakistan border.
He was convicted and remained in prison for three years.
He was criticised for supporting Sami-ul-Haq, described as the "Father of the Taliban," and funding his seminary, Darul Uloom Haqqania.
He was denied the opportunity to prove his majority on the floor of the house.
He was dismissed and imprisoned in August 1953.
He was elected President of All India Postal Staff Union in 1925 whose membership was 70,000.
He was elected prime minister in a PTI-led coalition government.
He was elected to the Punjab Legislative Council in 1927 and held several positions in the All-India Muslim League.
He was executed by hanging in April 1979.
He was exiled to Saudi Arabia in 2000 as part of a deal facilitated by international mediation.
He was faced with allegations of widespread intentional vote riggings, organizing political murders in Karachi.
He was followed by Sir Feroz Noon, who proved to be an incapable prime minister.
He was formally indicted in November on charges of hijacking, kidnapping, attempted murder, and treason for preventing Musharraf's flight from landing at Karachi airport on the day of the coup.
He was from a landowning family, and his father had obtained additional wealth through the construction and cinema industries.
He was given a Guard of Honour and while laying wreath at the Tomb of Unknown Soldier the National Anthem of Pakistan was played.
He was known as a "playboy" who was active in London's nightlife, often visiting Tramp in St James's.
He was known to Pakistani police prior to the assassination of Liaquat Ali Khan.
He was known to millions of cricket fans as the Lion of Lahore.
He was laid to rest with military honours in an army graveyard.
He was made GOC of the 7th Infantry Division of the Pakistan Army, which he commanded during the 1965 war with India.
He was moved to the lower altitude of Quetta on 13 August, the eve of Independence Day, for which a ghost-written statement for him was released.
He was named Man of the Series, taking 23 wickets in three Tests.
He was nominally a Shia Muslim, but was non-practising and was known to have indulged in activities prohibited in Islam such as womanizing and the consumption of alcoholic beverages.
He was nominated in 2019 for his endeavours to foster peace across South Asia.
He was one of five billionaires elected to Pakistan's National Assembly in 2013.
He was one of the signatories of the agreement to convene a convention for drafting a world constitution.
He was open to a "different approach" to the scaling back of troops in the State so as to allow a free vote.
He was ordered to pay a fine of US$400,000 on grounds of tax evasion, and he was sentenced to 14 years of imprisonment.
He was personally chosen by then-President and Chief of Army Staff general Zia-ul-Haq for this assignment due to Musharraf's wide experience in mountain and arctic warfare.
He was posted in Chakwal when Yahya Khan was born.
He was posthumously awarded the Nishan-e-Pakistan, the highest civilian award of the country.
He was pressured to resign by Lieutenant Generals Azam Khan, Wajid Ali Khan Burki, and Khalid Shaikh.
He was prevented from leaving the aeroplane and he was deported to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, within hours.
He was profoundly influenced by Western philosophers such as Nietzsche, Bergson, and Goethe.
He was promoted to captain and to major during this period.
He was promoted to lieutenant on 2 May 1930 and to captain on 2 February 1937.
He was promoted to lieutenant-colonel on 16 July 1946.
He was promoted to the permanent rank of major on 2 February 1945.
He was removed from the Economic Advisory Council on 7 September 2018 and afterwards council members Asim Ijaz Khwaja and Imran Rasul resigned in protest.
He was sent to Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), where he earned degrees in law and political science.
He was subsequently sentenced to death by a military court in what India called would be "premediated murder".
He was succeeded as chief of army staff by General Muhammad Musa.
He was suffering from a combination of serious medical conditions, including diabetes, a heart condition, and reports also suggest that his mental health was affected as well.
He was the first Pakistani Army General to be sentenced to death.
He was the first Russian Prime Minister to visit Pakistan in the post Soviet-era in 38 years.
He was the first ever Bengali to declare independence of East Pakistan during this rally but it was not officially recognized.
He was the first native commander-in-chief of the Pakistan Army, serving from 1951 to 1958.
He was the leading Test wicket-taker in 1982.
He was the leading architect of the Kargil War between India and Pakistan in 1999.
He was the only winner from PTI in that election.
He was treated with the new "miracle drug" of streptomycin, but it did not help.
He was welcomed at Islamabad Airport by Pakistan's Ambassador to Moscow, Muhammad Khalid Jamali, and Additional Foreign Secretary Shafqat Ali Khan.
He was well known for his conviction that the politicians were destroying the country.
He was what God made him, a great pleader.
He was widely criticised by Middle Eastern leaders, but was met with some praise among Jewish leadership.
He was willing to urge Junagadh to accede to India in return for Kashmir.
He was, however, criticised by NATO and the Afghan government of not doing enough to prevent activities by Taliban and al-Qaeda militants in the Pakistan-Afghanistan border region.
He went on to say that Pakistan has plans to construct a total of 32 nuclear power plants by 2050, which will generate more than 40,000 MW.
He went to the extent of poisoning vegetables in a Khudai Khidmatgar camp.
He won by majority 174 votes in the National Assembly of Pakistan.
He won by majority in the National Assembly of Pakistan against Omar Ayub Khan in a disputed elections.
He worked in a frenzy to consolidate Pakistan.
He worked there until he left for England in 1905.
He worked to expand the League, reducing the cost of membership to two annas (1⁄8 of a rupee), half of what it cost to join the Congress.
He would serve as president of the Punjab Muslim League, and would deliver speeches and publish articles in an attempt to rally Muslims across India as a single political entity.
He would write continuously in Persian throughout his life.
He wrote that the army "paved the way" for his 2018 election victory by easing out Sharif's government before the end of its term.
He wrote, "The status of LGBTI people, socially and legally, is at its worst.
Hearings were delayed as his legal team sought extensions.
Hence, from 14 August 1947 to 1 March 1956, the Government of India Act 1935 was retained as the Constitution of Pakistan.
Hence, it has several pro-Muslim laws in its Constitution.
Henceforth, Bhutto avoided openly criticising Sharif as she once had.
Her action strained and created tensions in Bangladesh–Pakistan relations, as Bangladesh Prime Minister Khaleda Zia refused to accept the deportees and reportedly sent two planeloads back to Pakistan.
Her changes were reversed by the Nawaz Sharif administration which was backed by religious political parties.
Her chief assets were her intelligence, her confidence, and the fact that she could talk to people of various backgrounds with empathy.
Her father was the politician Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and her mother was Begum Nusrat Ispahani.
Her faults as a political leader were many.
Her first husband, rebounding from a failed attempt at a second marriage, decided he wanted his first wife Shahida back.
Her flat became the unofficial headquarters of its members in exile; these volunteers devoted themselves to raising international awareness of the political prisoners being held by Zia's regime.
Her foreign policy made an effort to balance relations with Iran, the United States, the European Union and the socialist states.
Her friend Catherine Drucker, who knew her while the two women were at Oxford University, said Bhutto's political views were then akin to those "commonplace" within the "mild leftism of the day".
Her government observed the troop evacuation of the Soviet Union from neighbouring Afghanistan.
Her government was followed by that of Nawaz Sharif, and the two leaders alternated until the military coup by General Pervez Musharraf in 1999.
Her husband and daughters remained in Dubai, while her son was still studying at Oxford.
Her husband was in jail when the incident occurred.
Her love for books is influenced by her father, who ensured that they were surrounded by quality books.
Her mother taught her some Persian as a child.
Her narrow majority in the National Assembly had left her unable to reverse many of the Islamist reforms that Zia had introduced.
Her nineteen-year-old son, Bilawal Bhutto Zardari and his father Asif Ali Zardari were appointed party co-chairmen after assassination of Benazir Bhutto on 30 December 2007.
Her opposition to legalised abortion frustrated many Pakistani feminists.
Her parents gave her the childhood nickname of "Pinkie", possibly alluding to her rosy complexion.
Her platform emphasised civilian oversight of the military and opposition to growing Islamist violence.
Her release was opposed by a far-right fledgling party called Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP), an offshoot of right-wing religious group Tehreek-i-Labbaik Ya Rasool Allah Pakistan.
Her second term therefore witnessed a liberal approach to economics and the privatisation of industrial plants.
Her stance on these issues was perceived as part of rising public disclosure which Altaf Hussain called "racism".
Her tough and hardline policies on Afghanistan, Kashmir, and India, which the military had backed Benazir Bhutto staunchly.
Her voice, calm but unyielding, cut through fear like a blade.
Her writing style is very gripping, creating a very clear visual image of the characters and their physical settings.
Here they were confronted by Indian troops.
High courts have original and appellate jurisdiction.
Highlights of his visit included a state dinner at Mount Vernon, a visit to the Islamic Center of Washington, and a ticker tape parade in New York City.
Hina Pathani, another prominent transgender activist, starred alongside Kami Sid in Rani.
Hina Rabbani Khar became the first Minister of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan in 2011.
Hindu homes and temples were also attacked in Quetta.
Hindu women have been known to be victims of kidnapping and forced conversion to Islam.
Hindus have spoken of vulnerability to kidnapping and forced conversions.
Hindustani is the lingua franca of North India and Pakistan, as well as the official language of both countries, under the standard registers Hindi and Urdu, respectively.
His 12 foreign trips cost $680,000, which was less than a single New York visit by his predecessors.
His Chelsea residence, near Sergeant's studio and Tramp, became central to his social life.
His PML (N) party in its "white paper" on the war mentioned that more than 3,000 soldiers, officers and mujahideens were killed.
His PTI was among the parties that supported Pervez Musharraf in the 2002 Pakistani referendum.
His TV channel Geo Tv was shut down by the government for 15 days for airing reports that the ISI may have carried out the attacks.
His administration redistributed approximately 23 percent of the country's farmland to onetime tenant farmers.
His approach has divided allies and the military but, according to Swain, "mobilised a new generation of politically aware Pakistanis, including women and youth who previously shunned politics".
His arrest and imprisonment in August 2023 angered many in Indian-administered Kashmir.
His arrest triggered the May 9 riots, with PTI supporters allegedly attacking military and government installations.
His assassination was a first political murder of any civilian leader in Pakistan, and Liaqat Ali Khan is remembered fondly by most Pakistanis.
His authoritative actions had sown a permanent seed of hatred for the Pakistani government in the hearts of the people of East Pakistan.
His best ODI bowling was 6 for 14, the highest ODI innings figures recorded by any bowler in a defeat.
His birthday is also observed as a national holiday in the country.
His birthday is observed as a national holiday, Quaid-e-Azam Day, in Pakistan.
His body was returned to Karachi, Pakistan, from Dubai on 6 February.
His book The Reconstruction of Religious Thought in Islam was translated by Mohammad Masud Noruzi.
His book has also been translated into Urdu, Hindi, Tamil and Bangali.
His capabilities were soon recognized by General Zia ul-Haq, who appointed him as the Finance Minister of Punjab.
His character self is often compared to Dame Edna Everage.
His claims were never confirmed by the PAF and are disputed by Indian sources and some PAF officials.
His course-mates included Major-generals B. S. Malik and Ashok Mehta of the Indian Army, and Ali Kuli Khan of Pakistan Army.
His criticism of Westernised Pakistani elites contrasted with his privileged upbringing and western "jet-setter" lifestyle.
His critics questioned the layout of the highway, its excessive length, its distance from important cities, and the absence of link roads with important towns.
His cultural policies liberalised Pakistan's media, and he issued many television licences to the private-sector to open television centres and media houses.
His detention further inflamed the opposition, and demonstrations were sparked all over the country.
His detention was however later extended by the government for 90 days under the Anti-Terrorism Act 1997.
His domestic popularity was slipping; a mid-2007 poll gave him only a 26% approval rating.
His earlier initiatives were directed at establishing the National Security Council (NSC), with Major-General Ghulam Omar as its first advisor.
His elder brother, Javed Musharraf, based in Rome, is an economist and one of the directors of the International Fund for Agricultural Development.
His elder son, Hussain Nawaz, is a businessman based in Saudi Arabia and currently resides in Jeddah.
His eldest daughter, Maryam Nawaz, has served as the chief minister of Punjab since 2024.
His family continues its political legacy, with Bilawal Bhutto Zardari serving as the Foreign Minister of Pakistan from April 2022 to August 2023.
His family had deep respect for the Indian Muslim thinker and philosopher Syed Ahmad Khan, and his father had a desire for young Liaquat Ali Khan to be educated in the British educational system.
His family left for Pakistan in August 1947, a few days before independence.
His family were Kashmiri, tracing their ancestry back to the Sapru clan of Kashmiri Pandits who were from a south Kashmiri village in Kulgam and converted to Islam in the 15h-century.
His family were Muslims who were also Sayyids, claiming descent from the Islamic prophet Muhammad.
His family were written to be of Pashtun as well as Qizilbash origin and were descended from the elite soldiers of Iranian conqueror Nader Shah (r. 1736–1747).
His family, active in politics, faced tragedy with the assassinations of Benazir Bhutto in 2007 and Murtaza Bhutto in 1996.
His father followed the teachings of the Ahl-i Hadith.
His father joined the Pakistan Civil Services and began to work for the Pakistani government; later, his father joined the Foreign Ministry, taking up an assignment in Turkey.
His father was a merchant and was born to a family of textile weavers in the village of Paneli in the princely state of Gondal; his mother was from the nearby village of Dhaffa.
His father was the dewan of the princely state of Junagadh and enjoyed an influential relationship with the officials of the British Raj.
His father, Fateh Ali Mirza, belonged to the ruling house of Murshidabad, grandson of the first Nawab Mansur Ali Khan.
His father, Muhammad Sharif, was an upper-middle-class businessman and industrialist whose family had emigrated from Anantnag in Kashmir for business.
His father, Syed, was an accountant who worked at the foreign office in the British Indian government and eventually became an accounting director.
His first assignment was a posting in Aligarh in what is now Uttar Pradesh as an assistant commissioner before posting as a political agent in Hazara in the North West Frontier Province.
His first battlefield experience was with an artillery regiment during the intense fighting for the Khemkaran sector in the Second Kashmir War.
His first girlfriend, Emma Sergeant, an artist and daughter of British investor Sir Patrick Sergeant, introduced him to socialites.
His first military appointment was Lt. General Asim Munir as Director-General of Inter-Services Intelligence.
His first step towards a brighter career occurred when the acting Advocate General of Bombay, John Molesworth MacPherson, invited Jinnah to work from his chambers.
His first three years in the law, from 1897 to 1900, brought him few briefs.
His former deputy, Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad was appointed as the prime minister, and Indian security forces were deployed in the Valley to control the streets.
His former deputy, Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad was subsequently appointed as the prime minister, and Indian security forces were deployed in the Valley to control the streets.
His funeral prayers were offered at a mosque in Karachi's Gulmohar Polo Ground in Malir Cantonment on 7 February.
His government achieved positive results on the economic front, but his proposed social reforms were met with resistance.
His government adopted a policy of ambiguity regarding atomic bomb programs.
His government faced serious challenges including the dispute over Kashmir with India, forcing Khan to approach his counterpart the Prime Minister of India Jawaharlal Nehru.
His government increased reserved seats for women in assemblies, to increase women's representation and make their presence more effective.
His government was dismissed on 12 March 1986, by the then Governor Jagmohan following communal riots in south Kashmir.
His house arrest continued under lessened restrictions.
His house is now the Embassy of Netherlands in India and is known as Jinnah House by most.
His investigations were followed by a BBC documentary team led by Owen Bennett-Jones.
His last military field operations posting was in the Mangla region of the Kashmir Province in 1995 when Benazir Bhutto approved the promotion of Musharraf to three-star rank, Lieutenant-General.
His leadership during the conflict, while marked by bold initiatives, has been subject to scrutiny in post-war analyses.
His leading defence lawyer, Iqbal Raad, was gunned down in Karachi in mid-March.
His legacy and image are viewed negatively by some Pakistani historians who believe that Mirza was responsible for weakening democracy and causing political instability in the country.
His legacy was built up as a man who was the "martyr for democracy" in the newly founded country.
His literary works in the Persian language garnered him recognition in Iran.
His love of the Persian language is evident in his works and poetry.
His main intellectual references were peoples like Bentham, Mill, Spencer, and Comte.
His maternal family is from the Burki community, having lived near Jalandhar for centuries before migrating to Pakistan after Independence in 1947.
His military career was spent in the Military Police.
His mother, Khursheed Begum, was born Lakhi Bai, and had been a professional dance girl from a Hindu family but converted to Islam when she married Shah Nawaz.
His name was linked with the singer and actress Noor Jehan as well.
His nephew Ahmed Ali was a Major who also served as Yahya's aide-de-camp from 1966 to 1969.
His orders to his troops were: 'I want the land and not the people'".
His other title is Baba-e-Qawm (Father of the Nation).
His party became the leading party in the Provincial Assembly of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
His party failed to win a simple majority and hence formed a coalition government under Nawaz's younger brother, Shehbaz Sharif.
His party in the East Pakistan Parliament threatened to leave the state of Pakistan.
His peace with India was considered by many Pakistanis an embarrassing compromise.
His political career appeared to be over.
His political career involved perceived closeness to the military establishment, including contacts with several ISI chiefs.
His political philosophy strongly emphasised a united India, first gradually believing in Indian nationalism.
His political philosophy was influenced by Benazir Bhutto who mentored him on various occasions, and Musharraf generally was close to Benazir Bhutto on military policy issues on India.
His presidency oversaw a civil war in East Pakistan, resulting in Bangladesh's secession.
His presidency restored the writ of government through the promulgated constitution and restored political freedom by lifting the martial law enforced since 1958.
His presidency was also accused of violating the fundamental rights granted in the constitution.
His privatisation policies were continued by both Benazir Bhutto in the mid-1990s and Shaukat Aziz in the 2000s.
His proposal came a week after the 10-year commemorations of the late president Zia ul-Haq.
His refusal to hand over power to the Awami League, despite their electoral victory in East Pakistan, sparked political unrest.
His remarks were welcomed by Prime Minister Khan.
His resignation was at least partially due to his public differences with the party chairman, Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain.
His return to Pakistan allowed only one day to register for elections, setting the stage for an overnight shift of the political scene.
His rule is widely regarded as one of the leading causes of the fall of Dhaka and the breakup of Pakistan, but not entirely of his own making.
His socialist ideas favored the communist ideas but never actually allied with communism.
His son Javed Iqbal served as a justice of the Supreme Court of Pakistan.
His son Shaukat was a successful businessman and had four children: three sons and one daughter.
His strong advocacy for Muslims' rights had brought him into national prominence and significant respect was also gained from Hindu communities whom he fought for at higher levels of the government.
His successor, Syed Shahid Hamid is said to have supported Ayub Khan's rise to power.
His surname was omitted for his security.
His tenure was also distinguished by the completion of hydroelectric stations, dams, and reservoirs.
His thesis dealt with the spread of nuclear weapons in general, and the implications of India's nuclear weapons on Pakistan in particular.
His tomb is located in Hazuri Bagh, the enclosed garden between the entrance of the Badshahi Mosque and the Lahore Fort, and official guards are provided by the Government of Pakistan.
His trial began in early March 2000 in an anti-terrorism court, which is designed for speedy trials.
His tribunal expelled Secretary-General Jahangir Tareen, PTI's KPK Chief Minister Pervez Khattak, and senior leader Nadir Laghari for manipulating intra-party polls.
His verses appeared on banners, and his poetry was recited at meetings of intellectuals.
His view of the United States had remained positive by the time he seized power.
His visit to Pakistan administered Kashmir became an embarrassment, where according to Hashim Qureshi, he shared a platform with Kashmir Liberation Front.
His visit to Saudi Arabia aimed to address tensions arising from Pakistan's decision not to support the Saudi-led intervention in the Yemeni civil war.
His workers would stay in Islamabad as required, for their only demand would be to give a date for clean and transparent general elections and to dissolve assemblies.
His works in this period were often specifically directed at the Muslim masses of India, with an even stronger emphasis on Islam and Muslim spiritual and political reawakening.
His younger brother, Naved Musharraf, is an anaesthesiologist based in the state of Illinois, in the United States.
His younger son, Hassan Nawaz, is also a businessman and lives in London.
Historian Akbar S Zaidi notes that Pakistan "lost terribly in the 1965 war".
Historian Gowher Rizvi notes a "dramatic reversal" of India's earlier position.
Historian Ian Talbot wrote that his role in the 2014 protests was contentious.
Historians also asserted that Mirza's role as the head of state led him to play an active part in power politics, building an image of being a kingmaker in the country's politics.
Historically around 250 BC, during the Parthian Empire, the Zoroastrian text Vendidad was written.
Historically, the Peoples Party favoured financially stable farmers, industrial labour unions and the middle-class.
History taught in Pakistani school text books is mostly male oriented, in Urdu school books women religious role too is less depicted, women get depicted in inferior position compared to men.
Honour killings are supposed to be prosecuted as ordinary murder, but in practice, police and prosecutors often ignore it.
Hostilities intensified that August when the Pakistani army attempted to take Kashmir by force.
How journalist in Pakistan are openly shot, who speak against the Pakistani Army.
However Colonel Aleem Afridi backed down and informed the government against the plot.
However MWD faced a lack of resources initially.
However Pakistan reinterpreted the wording in the light of a reference to the "UN charter" in the agreement, and maintained that it could still approach the UN.
However Pervez Musharraf also said, '"Wherever there is a threat to Pakistan, we will use it [the equipment] there.
However Satinder Lambah, India's special envoy to Pakistan, says that while talks reduced due the Mumbai attacks, the formula was not disowned.
However U.S.-Pakistani relationship has been a transactional based and US military aid to Pakistan has been shrouded in secrecy for several years until recently.
However a judicial magistrate having special powers under section 30 of Code of Criminal Procedure can award all punishments except capital punishment.
However failure to find such proof of the rape could place her at risk of prosecution for another hudood ordinance, qazf for accusing an innocent man of adultery.
However it states that a presidential candidate must be a Muslim and not less than 45 years of age.
However numerous sourced noted that transgender people continued to be illegally arrested and those who have been legally identified as a certain gender are often treated as the opposing gender.
However the United States intervened, Indian operations for conducting the nuclear tests were called off and the Japanese government attempted to mediate.
However these clauses are not always respected in practice.
However, 46 percent of Pakistanis stated that people in same-sex relationships should be charged as criminals, while 31 percent disagreed.
However, 70% of Bangladeshis held a positive view of India: while 50% of Bangladeshis held a positive view of Pakistan.
However, Afghanistan had already rejected the claims made by Pakistan.
However, Afghanistan has admitted to providing support for terrorist groups such as Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP).
However, Akbar declined, citing that the position was beyond his competence.
However, Allen thought that it was "hard to pin down" what Bhutto's "core political values" actually were.
However, Ayub drastically reduced funding of the military in the 1950s and de-prioritized nuclear weapons in the 1960s.
However, Bhutto was arrested again under martial law, leading to the cancellation of upcoming elections.
However, Dixon's plan had encapsulated a withdrawal by both sides.
However, General Musharraf was strongly supported by the Bush administration.
However, General Zia-ul-Haq did not act immediately and claimed that the application had gone missing.
However, Iftikhar died in an air crash in December 1949 before he could take office, resulting in Gracey's extension.
However, Imran Khan and his party denied their involvement in the violence and accused secret agencies of framing the party for anti-army violence.
However, India and Pakistan could not agree on the suitable steps for demilitarisation to occur as prelude to the plebiscite.
However, India responded that he was an ex - Indian Navy serviceman, and had been abducted by Pakistan from Iran and wrongfully detained for three weeks without informing the Indian consulate.
However, Indian military support for Bengali guerrillas and a massive flood of Bengali refugees into India led to the escalation of hostilities and a declared war between India and Pakistan.
However, Iraq did not benefit from Bhutto's policies.
However, Islamic fundamentalists said it was un-Islamic for the country to have a female leader.
However, Khan chose to pay a goodwill visit to United States first.
However, Khan's government was later praised for leading the country's pandemic recovery in its later stages.
However, Media Minister Syed Mushahid Hussain felt that Pakistan was "finally becoming a normal democratic society", not beholden to its military.
However, Mujib still kept doors open for some sort of settlement in his speech of 7 March.
However, Nawaz Sharif was acquitted in this case in December 2018, as the accountability court found insufficient evidence to convict him.
However, Nawaz made amendments and received the permission of the Supreme Court to establish these courts.
However, Nawaz struck a more conciliatory tone, suggesting that Islamabad would mediate between Saudi Arabia and Iran.
However, Nawaz's diplomatic efforts seemed to have gone to waste after conducting nuclear tests in May 1998.
However, PTI boycotted this election in protest against electoral manipulation by Pervez Musharraf.
However, PTI failed to secure a majority in Punjab and made limited gains in Sindh or Baluchistan.
However, PTI was forced to name its candidates as independents due to issues with the ECP.
However, Pakistan also masterminded an attack on the Afghan city of Jalalabad during the Afghan Civil War to establish an Islamic government there.
However, Pakistan and China sorted their border lines Trans-Karakoram Tract professionally.
However, Pakistan claimed the US has not compensated as much as half of that money, but has only claimed so in the media.
However, Pakistan claims that Gilgit-Baltistan cannot be given constitutional status due to Pakistan's commitment to the 1948 UN resolution.
However, Pakistan has repeatedly denied these accusations.
However, Pakistan support of the U.S. and its war has angered many Pakistanis that do not support it.
However, Pakistani Taliban's Supreme Council demanded a cease-fire, to also include the release of all imprisoned militants and the withdrawal of the Pakistani military from all tribal regions.
However, Pakistani journalists, including Taha Siddiqui and Haseeb Asif have criticised the celebration of Defence Day.
However, Pakistanis with a dish receiver can still watch it and can continue to access its website and web stream.
However, President Clinton refused to intervene until Pakistan had removed all forces from the Indian side of the LOC.
However, Sharif withdrew support for the insurgents in July because of heightened international pressure.
However, Sheikh Mujib's Awami League won an absolute majority in the legislature, receiving more than twice as many votes as Bhutto's PPP.
However, Shuja Nawaz does list 22 Pashtun tribes involved in the invasion of Kashmir on 22 October.
However, The Times of India reported that Pakistan's military pressured Nawaz to stop trade liberalisation with India.
However, Trump's offer was immediately rejected by Indian foreign office.
However, Wavell was unwilling to guarantee that only the League's candidates would be placed in the seats reserved for Muslims.
However, Yahya Khan rejected the idea saying it would not bring them solution.
However, Yahya also had a keen interest in poetry, particularly the works of Shakespeare and Lord Byron.
However, Zia retained Nawaz as the Chief Minister of Punjab, and until his death, continued to support Nawaz.
However, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto (a former Foreign Minister), the leader of the Pakistan People's Party, refused to allow Rahman to become the Prime Minister of Pakistan.
However, a judicial probe found these allegations to be unsubstantiated.
However, a majority of Pakistan's Heads of State and Heads of Government have been elected civilian leaders.
However, a total of 479 transgender people were attacked since 2018 in the Pakistani province of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa alone.
However, according to Air Commodore Sajad Haider, the F-104 did not deserve this reputation.
However, according to Indian Army Chief Sam Manekshaw the Pakistani Army had fought gallantly.
However, according to Kenneth Werrell, the Pakistan Air Force "did well in the conflict and probably had the edge".
However, acting Chief Justice Ershad Hasan later argued of the constitutionality of the coup.
However, after a week at the airport, General Zia rejected Jalloud's request and upheld the death sentence.
However, after the assassination of JUI-S chief Samiul Haq in 2018, the activities of his faction gradually died down.
However, after the drone attacks in June, President Bush had said 'Pakistan is strong ally '.
However, after the launch of a massive anti-infiltration operation by the Indian army, the Pakistani infiltrators were forced out of that area in the month of August.
However, after the orders are authorized the Corps in both nation's will take between 24 and 72 hours to completely mobilize their combat assets.
However, almost all cases are brought to the Supreme Court on appeal, making the cases considered based on original jurisdiction rarely.
However, an exception was made for Punjab which did not apply to other provinces.
However, as an aftermath of the Fall of Dhaka in 1971, a two-party system was developed between the People's Party and Muslim League.
However, as per the constitution of the PTI that was approved on 1 August 2022 by Imran Khan and the party's National Council, the position of President does not exist in the structure of the party.
However, at the request of Bhutto, Pakistan's ambassador to the United States convened a meeting with Secretary of State Henry Kissinger.
However, because of the nature of the terrain, division and corps operations could not be mounted; subsequent fighting was conducted mostly at the brigade or battalion level.
However, before it could accomplish the task of framing the constitution, it was dissolved in October 1954.
However, before long, Nawaz Sharif announced his support for and leadership of the Lawyers' Movement to restore the suspended famed Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry in 2008.
However, both India and Pakistan failed to arrive at a truce agreement due to differences over interpretation of the procedure for and the extent of demilitarisation.
However, both Soviet-Union and United States deescalated the conflict.
However, both parties were electorally routed in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa by the religion-political alliance Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal (MMA) riding on a wave of anti-American sentiment in Pakistan.
However, by 2025, after the Second Trump administration suspended refugee admissions—deportations intensified, leaving thousands stranded.
However, by December 1946, he insisted on a fully sovereign Pakistan with dominion status.
However, critics point out that none of the 46 housing schemes directly built by the armed forces cater to ordinary soldiers, civilian officers or other army personnel.
However, despite that setback, during 1950–60, several pro-women initiatives were taken.
However, details of the briefing he got from the military before and after the Kargil operation have become public.
However, due to economical reasons, Khan deferred and refused to expand the nuclear energy programme despite the proposals made by Bhutto, Abdul Salam and Munir Khan.
However, due to subsequent orders to halt movements, the offensive was delayed and ultimately did not proceed before the ceasefire on December 17, 1971.
However, due to the Opposition's boycott, she never took oath as a member.
However, during her two incomplete terms in office (1988–90 and 1993–96), Benazir Bhutto did not propose any legislation to improve welfare services for women.
However, economic historians argued that the nationalisation program initially affected small industries and had devastating effects on Pakistan's economy, diminishing Bhutto's credibility.
However, even after the careful analysis the airborne operation failed, and major war broke out between India and Pakistan.
However, fashion magazines have largely managed to avoid this decline and continue to maintain a stable readership.
However, fearing the rise of inter-communal violence, the British Viceroy Lord Mountbatten advanced the date to 15 August 1947.
However, following the Supreme Court's judgement in the Al-Jehad Trust case, the government's role in judicial appointments was curtailed.
However, for the election of reserved seats for women in the Zila Council, proportionately divided among Tehsils or Towns, all members of the Union Councils in a Tehsil or Town shall be elected.
However, four of these centers became almost non-functional due to lack of financial and administrative support.
However, from 1994 to 2003 total print circulation increased substantially, particularly for dailies (3 million to 6.2 million).
However, given the huge economic cost of the war without any clear victory (or loss), Khan surrendered his presidential powers to army commander Yahya Khan (no relation) in 1969.
However, he declared his rejection for Karl Marx's communist philosophy and that he sought God's shelter from it.
However, he stated that they had information about Al Qaeda's strong ties with Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed operations in Pakistan.
However, he was hopeful that Pakistan's membership would produce benefits, particularly regarding a resolution to the Kashmir dispute with India.
However, he was not in favour of his execution as Carter and called on General Zia-ul-Haq to spare his life.
However, he won support from members of the Sunni ulama because of their understanding that Pakistan would be a state based on Islamic laws, not a secular one.
However, honour killings and rape occur less frequently than in other areas of Pakistan.
However, if the trial is not completed within three months, the case shall be brought to the notice of the Chief Justice of the High Court for appropriate directions.
However, in 2011, Reporters Without Borders listed Pakistan as one of the ten most deadly places to be a journalist.
However, in 2015, MQM parliamentarians resigned from the National Assembly, Senate and Provincial Assembly of Sindh in protest against a crackdown on party supporters.
However, in 2015, Pakistan Muslim League (N) won 15 seats and became the major party of Gilgit-Baltistan and PPP only received one seat in the Gilgit-Baltistan Assembly.
However, in 2024, strength of Supreme Court was increased to 25 judges.
However, in April 2022, a no-confidence motion against Khan removed him and his PTI government from office at the federal level.
However, in practice, Sharia Law takes precedence over Pakistani law.
However, in practice, these safeguards have not always worked.
However, in rural areas, the education rate is substantially lower.
However, in the 2020 elections, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) won 16 seats and became the only major party of Gilgit-Baltistan with PPP winning 3 and PML(N) winning two seats.
However, in the absence of any law to control the Political Parties and the problem of floor crossing, political instability perpetually ensued.
However, in the face of questions and criticisms from colleagues, his commitment began to waver.
However, international peace efforts ensured the cooling of tensions between the two nuclear-capable nations.
However, it also acknowledged that some reforms to the judicial system were needed to enhance efficiency and accountability.
However, it is around 19 percent in current legislative assemblies, and no woman has representation in the cabinets of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan.
However, it is revealed by historians that differences and disagreement with Jinnah arose over the Kashmir issue.
However, it remains to be seen if any positive effects will be derived from this.
However, it was India's position that it would not accept accession from the Maharaja unless it had the people's support.
However, it was not until 1 January 1949 that the ceasefire could be put into effect, signed by General Douglas Gracey on behalf of Pakistan and General Roy Bucher on behalf of India.
However, it was vetoed by the Soviet Union, and the following days witnessed the use of great pressure on the Soviets from the Nixon-Kissinger duo to get India to withdraw, but to no avail.
However, its success was limited elsewhere due to the lack of space and depth to deploy it.
However, just before the draft could be placed in the house for approval, the Assembly was dissolved by the then Governor General Ghulam Muhammad on 24 October 1954.
However, later in 1948, they relented and Pakistan's armies entered the war shortly afterwards.
However, later they were granted permission, and the Pakistani women's cricket team played its first recorded match on 28 January 1997 against New Zealand in Christchurch.
However, many LGBTQ advocates from Pakistan were not in support of everything that had happened and thought that the public eye was not what was needed for the LGBTQ community.
However, many judges upheld the "laws of Islam", often misinterpreted, over the Constitution's guarantee of non-discrimination and equality under the law.
However, many senior leaders of the PTI remain in police custody.
However, minor children of Pakistani mothers could apply for registration as citizens in a separate process that was subject to discretionary approval of the government.
However, mismanagement led to a collapse affecting millions of Pakistanis in 1992.
However, most neutral assessments agree that India had the upper hand over Pakistan when ceasefire was declared, but the propaganda in Pakistan about the war continued in favor of Pakistan Army.
However, much of the foreign policy efforts were reverted by General Zia-ul-Haq, and ties were finally restored after Bhutto's execution.
However, neither Benazir Bhutto nor Nawaz Sharif implemented these recommendations.
However, no major sources from the time reported on such an incident, and there is no mention of "Captain Lutz" in Israel's Ministry of Defense's record of Israel's casualties of war.
However, on 5 July 1977, Bhutto and his cabinet members were arrested by troops under the command of General Zia.
However, on 7 September, before a state visit to the US, Nawaz acknowledged in a STN News interview that the country had had an atomic bomb since 1978.
However, only 17 percent were supportive of holding a plebiscite in Kashmir.
However, over the time, some Pakistani women have emerged as scientists in fields like Physics, Biology and computer sciences.
However, past governments have been dismissed for corruption by the President's invocation of Article 58 of the Constitution.
However, planned development failed to address gender inequalities due to the gap between policy intent and implementation.
However, propaganda about the war continued in Pakistan, with most of the blame being placed on the leadership and little importance given to intelligence failures.
However, public opinion was largely against him by this time.
However, she had some successes with initiatives to encourage the development of civil society; she ensured the release of a number of political prisoners detained under the Zia government.
However, she managed to find an asylum in Canada in 2019.
However, she modified the laws to make them more moderate.
However, since the country's inception, the military has had disproportionate power over state affairs.
However, since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Pakistan and Russia have generally maintained cordial relations.
However, some claimed that the level of corruption did not diminish throughout Musharraf's time.
However, some militants managed to flee to Afghanistan.
However, tensions were defused in January 2002 after Musharraf vowed to act against terror infrastructure located in Pakistan.
However, the 'Operation Gibraltar' ended in failure as the Kashmiris did not revolt.
However, the 1951 elections were said to be rigged.
However, the 1980 agricultural census stated that the women's participation rate in agriculture was 73%.
However, the Afghan Taliban at night came in a car and took Khadir along with them to Afghanistan.
However, the Assembly was reluctant to implement the remaining measures agreed to in the Delhi Agreement.
However, the Congress insisted that if Pakistan were to become independent, Bengal and Punjab would have to be divided.
However, the Court found it legal in its jurisdiction in thrice cases when it validated the actions under the impression of "doctrine of necessity".
However, the Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) outright rejected such reports and stated that the elections were conducted fair and free.
However, the Imran Khan-led government managed to keep the situation under control.
However, the Indian and Pakistani forces were still under a joint command, and Field Marshal Auchinleck prevailed upon him to withdraw the order.
However, the Islamabad High Court (IHC) later suspended their sentences, citing several issues with the conviction.
However, the Islamabad High Court nullified this conviction in a 2023 ruling.
However, the PAF's American aircraft were superior to those of the IAF's.
However, the Press Council never came into operation due to the reservations of the media organisations.
However, the TLP has repeatedly resorted to violent protests used to coerce the government into agreeing to their demands.
However, the US praises Pakistan's military effort against the militants.
However, the United States again suspended aid and imposed sanctions along with India in 1998, only to be lifted once again with the United States engagement in Afghanistan in 2001.
However, the Women's Protection bill has been criticised heavily by many for paying continued lip service and failing to address the actual problem by its roots: repealing the Hudood Ordinance.
However, the accused are still to be punished.
However, the alliance fell apart and its members joined the Pakistan National Alliance.
However, the captured territory was given back to Pakistan in the Simla Agreement signed on 2 July 1972 between Indira Gandhi and Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
However, the corruption charges and the controversial death of Murtaza Bhutto in 1996 resulted in President Farooq Leghari dismissing Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto.
However, the deadline was extended to 30 April.
However, the decisions of some of the princely states would shape the Pakistan–India relationship considerably in the years to come.
However, the dissolution of the One Unit policy did not lead to the positive results that it might have yielded if withdrawn earlier.
However, the document omits women while listing 21 major areas of interests.
However, the economists in the Planning Commission alleged that his policies were tailored to reward the elite families and major landowners in the country.
However, the failure of land reforms and a weak taxation system meant that most of this growth landed in the hands of the elite.
However, the final death blow to the ruling coalition was the defection of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement – Pakistan.
However, the implementation of these policies was poor as the Government faced a financial crisis due to war with India and consequent division of the country.
However, the military establishment later reversed its support of political Islam under General Pervez Musharraf, who pursued enlightened moderation in the 2000s.
However, the military leadership vetoed the mission's proposal.
However, the military-backed Nawaz refused to obey the president's orders to remove him.
However, the minister of Pakistan has stated the opposite.
However, the ministry's environmental policies remain a subject of ongoing controversy, often criticised for ignoring the health of the environment despite the party's declarations.
However, the new coalition government had failed to restore the judges, leading to its collapse in late 2008.
However, the number of Federal Ministers and Ministers of State who are members of Senate, shall not at any time, exceed one fourth of the numbers of Federal Ministers.
However, the period following the Soviet withdrawal and the dissolution of the Soviet Union led indirectly to the increasing realignment of the U.S. with the previously pro-Soviet India.
However, the president went on leave due to illness.
However, the press freedom in Pakistan continues to decline.
However, the proceedings have been used in 2008 in an attempt to impeach former president Pervez Musharraf who tendered the resignation after the proceedings above were used.
However, the relations became cordinal in recent years and the Russian Army has been training in Pakistan.
However, the relations began to decline when the Taliban refused to endorse the Durand Line despite pressure from Islamabad, arguing that there shall be no borders among Muslims.
However, the relations between the two countries improved after Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan visited United States and met President Donald Trump.
However, the report said its monitors had noted little progress in most cases, with 217 out of 252 hearings adjourned, leaving many defendants stuck in pre-trial detention.
However, the secretary assembly refused to comply with his orders, and a no-confidence motion was moved against him by his own party.
However, the sovereign debt of Pakistan increased dramatically, with total debts and liabilities swelled to ₨22.5 trillion (or US$73 billion) by August 2016.
However, the spread of patriarchy is not even.
However, the tensions continued, and in April 2022, Khan was ousted from power in a no-confidence motion.
However, the term of the first group of the Senators, who shall retire after completion of first 3 years of the Senate, is determined by drawing of lots by the Chief Election Commissioner.
However, the term of the first group of the senators, who shall retire after completion of first 3 years of the Senate, is determined by drawing of lots by the Chief Election Commission.
However, the two men had very different points of view on running the government with the new situation, even though they were responsible for bringing about the change.
However, the visits never happened after Khan was assassinated and Stalin died.
However, there have been at least one case where civilians have been killed in 'fake encounters' by Indian army personnel for cash rewards.
However, there is a bone of contention between the two, because of the latter's close relations with, India.
However, there is an informal bilateral trade of around $10 billion, with most of the goods imported by Pakistan.
However, there was no representation of women in the Second Constituent Assembly, which had 72 members serving from 1955 to 1958.
However, these amendments failed to achieve a two-thirds majority in the Senate, which remained under the control of the PPP.
However, these developments had little impact on the peace process.
However, these developments were interrupted by Bhutto's removal and Daud Khan's overthrow in a military coup shortly after.
However, these discussions yielded no results and strong anti-Ayub demonstrations calling for his resignation were sparked all over the country.
However, these good relations haven't been around very long.
However, these programs were affected by the global recession, fueled by the oil crises, and the failure of reforms resulted into rising inflation in 1974.
However, they controversially did not apply the judgement to themselves.
However, this is disputed even by Bangladeshi academics who insist that the two-nation theory was not discredited.
However, this nationalisation process didn't meet Bhutto's expectations and faced challenges.
However, this support for India was mainly in the Ladakh and Jammu regions, not the Kashmir Valley, where only 9% of the respondents said that they would be better off with India.
However, this was not accepted by the Pakistani leader Mohammad Ali Jinnah.
However, those accused of blasphemy are frequently targeted and killed by angry mobs before any trial can begin.
However, unemployment remained a challenge.
However, upon realizing that Hekmatyar was unable to take power in Kabul, Pakistan looked elsewhere.
However, when Chief of Army Staff General Jehangir Karamat advocated for a National Security Council, Nawaz interpreted this as a conspiracy to return the military to an active political role.
However, while Abdullah was still in Pakistan, news came of the sudden death of Nehru on 27 May 1964.
However, while an exception was made for Punjab, where the transfer of populations was organised because of the communal violence affecting the province, this did not apply to other provinces.
However, with continued bans on trade unions and the decline of social security, economic inequality rose at a rapid rate.
However, with escalating border tensions leading to the 1962 Sino-Indian war, the PRC and Pakistan formed an alliance and India got badly beaten by China.
However, with the U.S. troops withdrawal, its role in serving as a conduit for the U.S. in Afghanistan has ended.
However, women are often prevented from advancing economically, due to social restrictions on women's movement and gender mixing, as well as due to low education.
Human rights experts say such tactics are used to extort individuals or inflate arrest figures, and that blasphemy laws are sometimes exploited to generate public support and funding.
Human rights groups saw that Zafran Bibi sentence was bizarre and the actions that were taken towards her case were not taken in the matter that it should have been.
Human rights groups such as Amnesty International Pakistan and Human Rights Commission and others had denounced the referendum as extremely fraudulent in 2002.
Human rights organisations have strongly condemned Indian troops for widespread rape and murder of innocent civilians while accusing these civilians of being militants.
Humayun Mirza is the only surviving son of Iskander Mirza.
Humayun's younger brother, Enver Mirza, had died in a plane crash in 1953.
Hundreds of Iranians, including Prime Minister Abbas Hoveyda, and Pakistani expatriates in Iran bade farewell and offered their prayers.
Hundreds of his supporters and workers of APML greeted Musharraf upon his arrival at Karachi airport, and he delivered a short public speech.
Hundreds of potential marchers were arrested in an alleged crackdown by the new Government of Pakistan.
Hundreds of their supporters were detained before the pair arrived at Iqbal Terminal on 25 November 2007.
Hundreds of women are victims of these attacks and some die from their injuries.
Huseyn Suhrawardy became the prime minister leading a communist-socialist alliance, and Iskander Mirza became the first president of Pakistan.
Hussain nominated Finance minister Shaukat Aziz, who had been impressive due to his performance as finance minister in 1999.
Hussain recounted past sacrifices, including the enforced disappearance and killing of his brother and nephew.
I advise you to guard against atheism and materialism.
I advised then prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri not to agree to a ceasefire.
I am big enough to admit if I had done it, that admission would have been less of an ordeal and humiliation than this barbarous trial which no self respecting man can endure.
I am entirely at peace with my conscience in this black hole of Kot Lakhpat.
I appointed several women to my cabinet and established a Ministry of Women's Development.
I can face Him with a clear conscience and tell Him that I rebuilt His Islamic State of Pakistan from ashes into a respectable Nation.
I could see that there now two centres of power on a collision course".
I doubt therefore the wisdom of trying to keep people by force where they do not wish to stay.
I had been born in independent Pakistan.
I had not asked for this role; I had not asked for this mantle.
I had twenty-five years ago seen through the drawbacks of this civilization and, therefore, had made some prophecies.
I have been very angry with him often during the past years.
I have done best to administer in the difficult task of arresting further deterioration and bringing order out of chaos...
I have worked day and night without a single day off.
I just never thought it would happen to me.
I look forward to my upcoming state visit to Pakistan.
I saw a girl tortured with cigarette butts.
I suffered, which was not because there was anything wrong with me, but the irregularities [of the schedule] and over-strain told upon my health".
I told the boys they had to play as if they were cornered tigers.
I told them to forget about bowling no-balls and wides, and just go out there and fight.
I was treated on the same basis as Mr Gandhi.
I would like to offer a few pieces of advice to the young men who are at present studying at Cambridge.
I would like to see the Punjab, North-West Frontier Province, Sind and Baluchistan amalgamated into a single state.
I, Major Ziaur Rahman, at the direction of Bangobondhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, hereby declare that Independent People's Republic of Bangladesh has been established.
ICFJ has also established the Center for Excellence in Journalism (CEJ) in Karachi, Pakistan.
IMF demanded Pakistan conduct economic reforms, including privatising 31 state-owned companies.
ISI is also reportedly engaged in supporting Khalistani Separatism in India.
Ibn Abdur Rehman, director of the Human Rights Commission, dismissed the referendum as "farcical", also claiming that votes were stuffed.
Ideologically a liberal and a secularist, she chaired or co-chaired the Pakistan People's Party (PPP) from the early 1980s until her assassination in 2007.
Ideologically separated from Congress Muslim leaders, Iqbal had also been disillusioned with the politicians of the Muslim League, owing to the factional conflict that plagued the League in the 1920s.
If [Pakistan] had wanted, she would have conducted nuclear tests 15–20 years ago [...] but the abject poverty of the people of the region dissuaded [... Pakistan] from doing so.
If a law is found to be 'repugnant', the Court notifies the relevant government, specifying the reasons for its decision.
If a law violates the Quran, sunnah or hadith, the Shariat Court will prohibit its enactment.
If a vote of no confidence is passed against the government, then the government collapses and a new one must be formed.
If any part of the law is declared to be against Islamic law, the government is required to take the necessary steps to amend such law appropriately.
If any part of the law is declared to be against Islamic law, the government must take necessary steps to amend such law appropriately.
If anyone says that she was punished because of Qazaf (false accusation of rape) then Qazaf Ordinance, Clause no.
If dissolved, new elections are conducted for the Assembly.
If it is not a money bill, the President may return it to the Majlis-e-Shoora with a message requesting that the bill be reconsidered and an amendment specified in the message be considered.
If the Federal Government proclaims State of Emergency in any province, the power to legislate about that province is vested in the Parliament.
If the House passes a bill through a majority vote, it shall be transmitted to the other place.
If the Islamic Republic, he wrote, "wants to prove itself as a haven for religious freedom, then it must ban these regressive laws".
If the National Assembly is so requisitioned, it must be summoned within 14 days.
If the attempt failed, Pakistan hoped to have raised international attention to the Kashmir issue.
If the bill is passed in the joint sitting, with or without amendments, by the votes of majority of the members of the two houses, it shall be presented to the president for assent.
If the bill is passed in the joint sitting, with or without amendments, by the votes of the majority of the members of the two houses, it shall be presented to the President for assent.
If the bill is presented to the President for assent, he shall assent to the bill in not later than ten days.
If the bill is presented to the president for assent, he shall assent to the bill in not later than ten days.
If the federal government proclaims a state of emergency in any province, the power to legislate about that province is vested in the Parliament.
If the house passed the bill through majority vote, it shall be transmitted to the other house.
If the other house passes it without amendment, it shall be presented to the President for assent.
If the other house passes it without amendment, it shall be presented to the president for assent.
If the resolution is passed by majority of the total membership of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister immediately ceases to hold the office.
If the threat comes from al-Qaeda or Taliban, it will be used there.
If the vote of no confidence is passed by the National Assembly by a simple majority, the prime minister ceases to retain the office.
If there is a policy failure or lapse on the part of the government, all the members of the cabinet are jointly responsible.
If there is any misunderstanding or disagreement between the President and the Prime Minister, the President may use these powers to dismiss the Prime Minister and dissolve National Assembly.
If there is no sister to exchange in return for a son's spouse, a cousin, or a distant relative can also do.
If they had been present and voted not guilty in a 5–4 decision, Bhutto would have gone free.
If this trend prevails, then the Vision 2025 will fail to translate into action.
If you catch your enemy by the jugular vein he would react with full force...
If you cut enemy supply lines, the only option for him will be to ensure supplies by air... (sic).. at that situation the Indian Army was unlikely to confront and it had to come up to the occasion.
Iftikharuddin returned in mid-September to report that the National Conference held strong in the Kashmir Valley and ruled out the possibility of a revolt.
Ignorance about the virus, and how it is spread, is commonplace; this is particularly true among people performing high-risk behaviour such as prostitutes.
Ilyas Kashmiri was charged by the US in a plot against Jyllands-Posten, the Danish newspaper at the center of the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy.
Immediately after the Supreme Court's Chief Justice Munir justified the coup under the doctrine of necessity, Ayub sent the military into the presidential palace and exiled Mirza to England.
Immediately, Babar Awan resigned from his position as Law Minister, opting to leave the Justice Ministry entirely to independently counsel Bhutto's case.
Imperial State of Iran was the first country to recognise Pakistan in 1947.
Implementation of the laws against homosexuality are generally unenforced but do still happen.
Imprisoned and subject to trial after the coup, Sharif avoided the death penalty as a result of pressure from US president Bill Clinton.
Imran Ahmed Khan Niazi[a] (born 5 October 1952) is a Pakistani former cricketer, philanthropist, and politician who served as the 19th prime minister of Pakistan from August 2018 until April 2022.
Imran Farooq (MQM second in command at that time) was forced to flee Pakistan and took political asylum in the UK.
Imran Khan also pledged to resign should any terrorism take place from Pakistani soil following these reforms.
Imran Khan and PTI made several key appointments and nominations for national and provincial level public office holders as the winning party.
Imran Khan and Shah Mehmood Qureshi were elected on 20 March 2013.
Imran Khan ascended to leadership in 2018 with the backing of the military, but was subsequently removed from power in 2022 after losing that support.
Imran Khan asked people to reach the Srinagar Highway in Islamabad to support his demands for early elections.
Imran Khan began mobilising workers on 29 October 2016 to lockdown Islamabad, demanding Nawaz's resignation and a corruption inquiry.
Imran Khan gave a six-day ultimatum to the government to declare elections and dissolve assemblies.
Imran Khan in his book, Pakistan: A Personal History, recalled an incident before a 1987 Cricket World Cup warm-up match against the West Indies at Gaddafi Stadium.
Imran Khan nominated him for the position of the new chairman of the PTI.
Imran Khan responded to the atrocities by accepting the demands of the attackers which infuriated the Pakistani victims.
Imran Khan stood in seven constituencies across Pakistan but did not secure a majority in any.
Imran Khan was arrested by the police from Islamabad High Court (IHC) on 9 May 2023, but was later released by Supreme Court two days later.
Imran Khan was arrested due to the case, and Pakistani court rejected a petition by PTI.
Imran Khan was arrested on 9 May 2023 in a controversial move by paramilitary forces, and has remained imprisoned since August 2023, with major protests still ongoing for his release.
Imran Khan was banned from contesting the 2024 general election.
Imran Khan was elected Prime Minister with Arif Alvi, Khan's close ally, as president.
Imran Khan was jailed for the duration of the election.
Imran Khan was re-elected chairman by a large margin.
Imran Khan, chairman of the PTI, proceeded to form a coalition government, announcing his cabinet shortly after the elections.
Imran Khan, the leader of PTI claimed "having relations with US, Russia and China is in Pakistan's interest" and Pakistan's "future is tied up with Russia".
Imran announced a movement for Haqeeqi Azadi, translated ‘Real Freedom’.
Imran, concerned for Sharif's safety against the West Indies' formidable pace attack, asked if an ambulance was ready.
In "Gulshan-e-Raz-e-Jadeed", Iqbal first poses questions, then answers them with the help of ancient and modern insight.
In 1847, the Imperial Parliament formalised a clear distinction between subjects who were naturalised in the UK and those who did so in other territories.
In 1857, many Indians had risen in revolt against British rule.
In 1893, the Jinnahbhai family moved to Bombay.
In 1895, at age 19, he became the youngest British Indian to be called to the bar in England.
In 1899, he received his Master of Arts degree from the same college and won first place in philosophy in the University of the Punjab.
In 18th Amendment, judges appointments are proposed by a Parliamentary Commission.
In 1900, P. H. Dastoor, a Bombay presidency magistrate, left the post temporarily and Jinnah succeeded in getting the interim position.
In 1905, he departed from India to pursue further education in Europe, first in England and later in Germany.
In 1905, he travelled to England for that purpose.
In 1907 he went to Germany for PhD In 1908, he returned from Germany and joined the same college again as a professor of philosophy and English literature.
In 1907, he had a close friendship with the writer Atiya Fyzee in both Britain and Germany.
In 1908, his factional foe in the Indian National Congress, Bal Gangadhar Tilak, was arrested for sedition.
In 1915, he published his first collection of poetry, the Asrar-i-Khudi اسرارِ خودی (Secrets of the Self) in Persian, for which he was honored with a British knighthood upon its publication.
In 1916, with Jinnah now president of the Muslim League, the two organisations signed the Lucknow Pact, setting quotas for Muslim and Hindu representation in the various provinces.
In 1918, Jinnah married his second wife Rattanbai Petit ("Ruttie"), 24 years his junior.
In 1919, he became the general secretary of the same organisation.
In 1920, however, Jinnah resigned from the Congress when it agreed to follow a campaign of satyagraha, which he regarded as political anarchy.
In 1921, Khan was awarded the Master of Law in Law and Justice, by the college faculty who also conferred on him a Bronze Medallion.
In 1925, as recognition for his legislative activities, he was offered a knighthood by Lord Reading, who was retiring from the Viceroyalty.
In 1927, the British Government, under Conservative Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin, undertook a decennial review of Indian policy mandated by the Government of India Act 1919.
In 1930, Jinnah urged Prime Minister Ramsay MacDonald and his Viceroy Lord Irwin to convene a Round Table Conferences in London.
In 1930, Khan and Jinnah attended the First Round Table Conference which ended in disaster, leading Jinnah to depart from British India to the UK.
In 1931, Fatima Jinnah joined her brother in England.
In 1932, Khan married for a second time to Begum Ra'ana who was a prominent economist and academic who became an influential figure in the Pakistan movement.
In 1932, he was unanimously elected Deputy President of UP Legislative Council.
In 1933, after returning from a trip to Spain and Afghanistan, Iqbal suffered from a mysterious throat illness.
In 1933, he was officially invited to Afghanistan to join the meetings regarding the establishment of Kabul University.
In 1935, according to his instructions, Syed Nazeer Niazi initiated and edited the journal, named after Iqbal's poem "Tulu'i Islam".
In 1936, the annual session of the League met in Bombay (now Mumbai).
In 1938, a notable disturbance occurred for religious reasons, but a settlement was reached.
In 1938, they renamed the party National Conference in order to make it representative of all Kashmiris independent of religion.
In 1940, Khan was made the deputy leader of the Muslim League Parliamentary party.
In 1940, the Muslim League, led by Jinnah, passed the Lahore Resolution.
In 1942, Balraj Madhok arrived in the state as a pracharak of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).
In 1943, he entered into his first marriage with his cousin Shireen Amir Begum, from whom he later separated.
In 1943, his marriage was arranged with Shireen Amir Begum.
In 1944–45, Gandhi also began addressing Jinnah as Quaid-e-Azam in his correspondence.
In 1945–46, mass elections were held in India and Khan won the Central Legislature election from the Meerut Constituency in the United Provinces.
In 1946, he was posted back to British India and was stationed in the North-West Frontier Province.
In 1946, the National Conference launched the 'Quit Kashmir' movement, asking the Maharaja to hand the power over to the people.
In 1947 after gaining independence from the United Kingdom, Pakistan still had close ties with the country.
In 1947, Bhutto was admitted to the University of Southern California to study political science.
In 1947, Khan and his Finance minister Malick Ghulam proposed the idea of Five-Year Plans, by putting the country's economic system on investment and capitalism grounds.
In 1947, Pakistan consisted of West Pakistan (today's Pakistan) and East Pakistan (today's Bangladesh).
In 1947, he was promoted to brigadier and commanded a brigade in South Waziristan.
In 1947, she formed the Women's Relief Committee, which later formed the nucleus for the All Pakistan Women's Association (APWA).
In 1947, the Pakistan Army's war strategists developed a combat doctrine which was called "The Riposte", which featured a strategy of "offensive-defense".
In 1947, the princely state of Jammu and Kashmir had a wide range of ethnic and religious communities.
In 1947–48 period, Ali Khan-Jinnah relations was contentious, and the senior military leadership and Jinnah himself became critical of Khan's government.
In 1948, Ben-Gurion of Israel sent a secret courier to Jinnah to establish the diplomatic relations, but Jinnah did not give any response to Ben-Gurion.
In 1948, Eugene Black, then executive director of the World Bank, offered his services to solve the tension over water control.
In 1948, Governor-General Muhammad Ali Jinnah declared that "Urdu, and only Urdu" would be Pakistan's federal language.
In 1948, Jinnah died, and a major problem of religious minorities flared during late 1949 and early 1950.
In 1948, Pakistan established relations with the Soviet Union, and an agreement was announced a month later.
In 1949, the Indian government obliged Hari Singh to leave Jammu and Kashmir and yield the government to Sheikh Abdullah.
In 1950, India emerged as a secular republic with a Hindu-majority population.
In 1950, Prime Minister Liaquat Ali Khan authored the first annexe that would pave a path to the drafting of the Constitution.
In 1950, the United States extended an overture to Pakistan by inviting Prime Minister Khan for an official state visit.
In 1951, Khan was assassinated by Sayyid Akbar Babrak, an Afghan national.
In 1951, Prime minister Ali Khan appointed him as the director of the Department of Kashmir and Afghanistan Affairs (DKA).
In 1951, he became the first native commander-in-chief, succeeding General Gracey.
In 1952 the government of Afghanistan published a tract in which it laid claim not only to Pashtun territory within Pakistan, but also to the Pakistani province of Balochistan.
In 1952, Sheikh Abdullah drifted from his previous position of endorsing accession to India to insisting on the self-determination of Kashmiris.
In 1953 at the instigation of religious parties, anti-Ahmadiyya riots erupted, which led to many Ahmadi deaths.
In 1954 the controversial One Unit Program was imposed by the last Pakistan Muslim League (PML) Prime minister Ali Bogra dividing Pakistan on the German geopolitical model.
In 1954, Prime Minister Muhammad Ali Bogra's relations with the military and Governor-General Ghulam Muhammad deteriorated on issues of the economy.
In 1955, Pakistan joined the CENTO and the SEATO alliances.
In 1955, Prime Minister Bogra was dismissed by Governor-General Malik Ghulam Muhammad, and he was succeeded by the new Prime Minister Chaudhry Muhammad Ali as the Defence Minister.
In 1955, an accord was signed between Nawab Sadeq Mohammad Khan V and Lt Gen Ghulam Muhammad Malik which made the state of Bahawalpur a part of the province of West Pakistan.
In 1955, the Dacca High Court and the Lahore High Court became the High Court of East Pakistan and the High Court of West Pakistan, respectively.
In 1956 Wali Khan joined the National Awami Party (NAP), led by a charismatic Bengali socialist, Abdul Hamid Khan Bhashani.
In 1956 the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan approved a constitution that ended Pakistan's status as an independent Dominion of the British Empire, to create an Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
In 1956, Pakistani Prime Minister Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy and Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai signed the Treaty of Friendship Between China and Pakistan, marking closer bilateral ties.
In 1956, he left Turkey and returned to Pakistan in 1957 where he attended Saint Patrick's School in Karachi and was accepted at the Forman Christian College University in Lahore.
In 1956, the 1st Armored Division in Multan was established, followed by the Special Forces in Cherat under the supervision of the U.S Army's Special Forces.
In 1956, the first Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan was adopted in Karachi at the same Sindh Assembly building which also passed as the Parliament of Pakistan.
In 1957, Bhutto became the youngest member of Pakistan's delegation to the United Nations.
In 1957, President Mirza promoted him from acting full general to the substantive rank of full general.
In 1957, the I Corps was established and headquarter was located in Punjab.
In 1958, Mirza imposed the martial law under its enforcer General, Ayub Khan, but was also dismissed the same year.
In 1958, President Mirza accepted the resignation of Vice-Admiral M.S.
In 1960, Ayub Khan granted permission for the United States to fly its first spy missions to the Soviet Union from the Peshawar Air Base, which had been recently upgraded with American funds.
In 1960, Justice Alvin Robert Cornelius became the first Christian to be served as Chief Justice, while George Constantine also served in the Court.
In 1960, President Ayub Khan appointed Justice Alvin Robert Cornelius who took much liberal approach in his jurisprudence when deciding cases on fundamental rights against the executive overreach.
In 1960, President Ayub, together with Prime Minister Nehru, signed the Indus Waters Treaty brokered by the World Bank.
In 1961 the Pakistani space program was launched and the nuclear power program was continued.
In 1961, Khan paid his first visit to the United States as head of state.
In 1961, at the age of 18, Musharraf entered the Pakistan Military Academy at Kakul.
In 1961–62, Ayub paid a state visit to the United Kingdom.
In 1962, China invaded and fought a war with India along the disputed Indo-Chinese border, including in Indian administered-Ladakh, marking their entry to the Kashmir conflict.
In 1962, Pakistan had witnessed the Sino-Indian War, with China emerging victorious.
In 1962, after India was defeated by China, Ayub Khan disguised a few thousand soldiers as guerillas and sent them to Indian Kashmir to incite the people to rebel.
In 1962, as territorial differences escalated between India and China, Beijing considered staging an invasion in northern Indian territories.
In 1962, the Space Research Commission launched the first solid-fuel rocket, Rehbar-I, built with close interaction with the U.S. NASA.
In 1962, the second set of the Constitution completely dissolved the office of prime minister as all powers were transferred to the president of Pakistan.
In 1962, troops from the People's Republic of China and India clashed in territory claimed by both.
In 1963, Ayub signed the historic Sino-Pakistan Frontier Agreement with China despite US opposition.
In 1964 the Pakistani Armed Forces quelled a suspected pro-communist revolt in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, West Pakistan, allegedly supported by communist Afghanistan.
In 1964, President Ayub Khan was confident in his apparent popularity and saw the deep divisions within the political opposition which ultimately led him to announce presidential elections in 1965.
In 1964, the Pakistan Army engaged with the Indian Army in several skirmishes, and clandestine operations began.
In 1964, the Soviet Union and its satellite states broke off relations with Beijing over ideological differences, with only Albania and Pakistan supporting the People's Republic of China.
In 1965 the NAP split into two factions, with Wali Khan becoming president of the pro-Moscow faction.
In 1965, Bhutto advocated for Salam, successfully appointing him as the head of Pakistan's delegation at the IAEA, and assisted Salam in lobbying for nuclear power plants.
In 1965, Bhutto received information from his friend Munir Ahmad Khan about the status of India's nuclear program.
In 1965, General Ayub Khan entered the presidential race as the Convention Muslim League's candidate to counter the opposition candidate Fatima Jinnah.
In 1965, Pakistan attempted to infiltrate Indian-administered Kashmir to precipitate an insurgency there, resulting in another war fought by the two countries over the region.
In 1965, after Pakistan went ahead with its strategic infiltration mission in Kashmir codenamed Operation Gibraltar, India declared full-scale war against Pakistan.
In 1965, assuming that a weakened Indian Military would not respond, Pakistan chose to send in "mujahideens" and Pakistan Army regulars into the Indian-controlled part of Jammu and Kashmir.
In 1965, it decided that the conditions were ripe for a successful guerilla war in Kashmir.
In 1966 the Awami League led by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman demanded provisional autonomy at the Round Table Conference held by Ayub Khan; this was forcefully rejected by Bhutto.
In 1966 the Indian opposition leader Jayaprakash wrote to Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi that India rules Kashmir by force.
In 1966, the IV Corps was formed and its headquarter was established, and permanently stationed in Lahore, Punjab in Pakistan.
In 1966–1967, it would rise to 17% and by 1970–1971 it would rise to 25% of its revenue.
In 1966–67, Ayub wrestled with the United States' attempt to dictate Pakistan's foreign policy, while he strengthened relations with the Soviet Union and China.
In 1967 a Socialist convention, attended by the country's leftist philosophers and notable thinkers, took place in Lahore.
In 1967, Bhutto formed People's Party of Pakistan and tapped a wave of anti-Ayub Khan movement in both West and East Pakistan.
In 1967, Bhutto formed the Pakistan People's Party (PPP) and embarked on a nationwide tour where he attacked the Ayub administration's economic, religious, and social policies.
In 1967, India's nuclear program was aimed at the development of nuclear weapons, with Indira Gandhi overseeing the development of the weapons.
In 1967, disapproval of price hikes of food prompted demonstrations across the country led by Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
In 1967, the PPP tapped a wave of anger against Ayub Khan and successfully called for major labour strikes in the country.
In 1968, Ayub Khan celebrated his government's "Decade of Development" which was widely disapproved of when the demonstrations erupted all over the country.
In 1968, Muhajirs from East Pakistan started Muhjairland movement for a separated province.
In 1968, Pakistan Peoples Party then launched and driven the massive public-relations and membership program, beginning in the Punjab province.
In 1968, his administration celebrated the so-called "Decade of Development" when the mass protests erupted all over the country due to an increasingly greater divide between the rich and the poor.
In 1968, the Supreme Court was greatly divided when Chief Justice Hamoodur Rahman presided the case hearings after President Yahya Khan declared martial law and suspended the writ of the constitution.
In 1969, Ayub Khan opened negotiations with the opposition parties in what was termed as a "Round Table Conference" where he held talks with all major opposition parties.
In 1970, Bhutto advised Japan not to be a party to NPT, but Japan signed it but later regretted not being properly progressed.
In 1970, Liaquat Ali Khan and Fatima Jinnah's joint affidavit that Jinnah was Shia was rejected.
In 1970–71, the expenditure on defence accounted for 32% or 55.66% of the total government expenditure.
In 1971, India gained military and political momentum over Pakistan, after their success in the Indo-Pakistani war of 1971.
In 1971, Pakistan withdrew itself from the two alliances in a vision of exercising an independent foreign policy.
In 1971, it was re-organized and reestablished under "Chapter I: Part-XII, Article 240" of the Constitution of Pakistan which gave it foundation and constitutional status.
In 1971, several military officers revolted against the government, compelling the government to resign and transferring power to Z.A Bhutto.
In 1971, the II Corps was established and headquartered in Multan, driven towards defending the mass incursion from the Indian Army.
In 1971, the office was again revived but ceased to exist shortly.
In 1971, when he assumed control, Pakistan was in disarray after a brutal civil war.
In 1971, while she was at Harvard, Zulfikar invited her to join him in New York City, where he was involved in a United Nations Security Council meeting on that year's Indo-Pakistani War.
In 1971–72, Pakistan ended its alliance with the United States after the East-Pakistan war in which East Pakistan successfully seceded with the aid of India.
In 1972 the country's top intelligence services provided an assessment on the Indian nuclear program, concluding that: "India was close to developing a nuclear weapon under its nuclear programme".
In 1972, Benazir accompanied her father to the India-Pakistan Summit in Simla as a replacement for her mother, who was ill.
In 1972, Bhutto initially attempted to forge friendly ties with Afghanistan, but these efforts were rebuffed in 1973.
In 1972, the People's Party had to address the labor unrest when the steel workers intensified their demands and the whole country engulfed with periodic lockouts and encirclement of industries.
In 1972, the government initially provided old age benefits through group insurance, enhanced compensation rates, and gratuity.
In 1972, the party was strong enough to form coalition provincial governments, with its partner the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (JUI) in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan.
In 1973, Fazal Ilahi Chaudhry became the first president from the PPP in an indirect polling.
In 1973, Iraq provided the Balochs with conventional arms, and it opened an office for the Baluchistan Liberation Front (BLF) in Baghdad.
In 1973, during the Yom Kippur War, Pakistan's relations with the Arab world represented a watershed.
In 1973, the People's Party spearheaded the writings and the framework of the Constitution that placed the country's political structure towards the parliamentary democracy.
In 1973, the new Constitution established Parliamentary democracy and reduced president's role to a ceremonial one.
In 1973, the new Constitution established Parliamentary democracy and reduced the president's role to a ceremonial one.
In 1974 Bhutto succumbed to increasing pressure from religious parties and encouraged Parliament to declare adherents of Ahmadiyya to be non-Muslims.
In 1974, Bhutto adopted the recommendation from Hamoodur Rehman Commission, and disbanded the "Commander-in-Chief" title as the head of the Pakistan Armed Forces.
In 1974, Bhutto and his Foreign Minister Aziz Ahmed brought a U.N. resolution, recommending the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in South Asia.
In 1974, Bhutto cancelled the fourth five-year plans bypassing the recommendations of the Planning Commission, focusing entirely on broadening government control over private business enterprises.
In 1974, Bhutto hosted the second Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC) in 1974 where he delegated and invited leaders from the Muslim world to Lahore, Punjab Province of Pakistan.
In 1974, Bhutto initiated a more aggressive diplomatic offensive on the United States and the Western world over nuclear issues.
In 1974, Bhutto maintained that foreign companies and industries in Pakistan were exempt from nationalisation policies, and his government would welcome foreign investment to establish factories.
In 1974, Bhutto's trusted Science Advisor Abdus Salam left Pakistan when Parliament declared Ahmadis as non-Muslims.
In 1974, Bhutto, as prime minister, visited the Soviet Union.
In 1974, India carried out a nuclear test, codenamed Smiling Buddha, near Pakistan's eastern border.
In 1974, Pakistan became a critical entity in the militarization of the OIC and has historically maintained friendly relations with all the Arab and Muslim countries under the banner of OIC.
In 1974, pressured by other Muslim nations, Pakistan eventually recognised Bangladesh as Mujib stated he would only go to the OIC conference in Lahore if Pakistan recognised Bangladesh.
In 1974, she flew to Lahore to accompany her father at the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation's summit.
In 1974, the Parliament of Pakistan gave approval of 1973 Constitution.
In 1974, the State Subject law was officially abolished in Gilgit Baltistan, which allowed any Pakistani to settle and buy land.
In 1974, with Abdus Salam's assistance, Bhutto authorised the International Nathiagali Summer College on Contemporary Physics (INSC) at Nathiagali.
In 1974, with India carried out the test of nuclear weapons near the Pakistan's eastern border, codename Smiling Buddha, Bhutto sought the United States to impose economic sanctions in India.
In 1975, Bhutto acknowledged the challenges and shortcomings faced by college students in many existing hostels.
In 1975, an official delegation from Pakistan participated in the First World Conference on Women in Mexico, which led to the constitution of the first Pakistani Women's Rights Committee.
In 1976 the Sindh and Balochistan High Court was split into the High Court of Sind (Karachi) and the High Court of Balochistan (Quetta).
In 1976, Murtaza Bhutto graduated from Harvard University, Bhutto graduated with his thesis entitled "Modicum of Harmony".
In 1976, during a secret mission, Henry Kissinger threatened Bhutto and his colleagues.
In 1976, nine religious and conservative parties formed a common platform, called the Pakistan National Alliance (PNA).
In 1976, the Supplementary Report was submitted, which was the comprehensive report compiled together with the First Report; this report was also marked as classified.
In 1977 general elections were held in which the Peoples Party were victorious.
In 1977, Bhutto was arrested by his appointed army chief Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, who declared martial law and assumed presidency in 1978.
In 1977, Bhutto was overthrown in a military coup led by Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq.
In 1977, one official of the Military Intelligence (MI) had persuaded Prime Minister Bhutto that martial law was imminent, and to speed up the negotiations with the PNA.
In 1977, she was elected President of the Oxford Union debating society, the first Asian woman to hold that post.
In 1977, the PAEC's Theoretical Physics Group had completed the design of the first fission weapon, and KRL scientists succeeded in electromagnetic isotope separation of Uranium fissile isotopes.
In 1977, the Pakistan People's Party led by Bhutto secured the landslide victory in general election over the conservative National Alliance but the opposition refused and denied the election results.
In 1977, the Supreme Court found Bhutto guilty of murder charges and condemned him to death.
In 1977, the Supreme Court had again legalised the martial law in the light of "doctrine of necessity" and denied taking petitions to review its decision.
In 1979, a group of Pakistani students burned the American embassy in Islamabad to the ground, as a reaction to the Grand Mosque Seizure, citing U.S. involvement.
In 1980, a plot by Maj. Gen. Tajammul Hussain Malik to assassinate Zia-ul-Haq on Pakistan Day on March 23, 1980, was exposed and thwarted.
In 1981, General Zia-ul-Haq nominated the Majlis-e-Shoora (Federal Advisory Council) and inducted 20 women as members, however Majlis-e-Shoora had no power over the executive branch.
In 1981, Nawaz joined the Punjab Advisory Council under Khan.
In 1982, Khan became captain of the Pakistan national cricket team.
In 1982, Nusrat Bhutto, ill with cancer, was given permission to leave Pakistan for medical treatment and remained abroad for several years.
In 1982, the Federal Shariat Court ruled that there is no prohibition in the Qur'an or Hadith about the judgeship of a woman nor any restriction limiting the function of deciding disputes to men only.
In 1983, Bhutto's decision was posthumously vindicated when PAEC conducted a cold test near Kirana Hills, evidently made from non-fissioned plutonium.
In 1983, Pakistan achieved a major milestone in its efforts after it covertly performed a series of non-fission tests, codenamed Kirana-I.
In 1983, Safia Bibi, a nearly blind teenage domestic servant was allegedly raped by her employer and his son.
In 1983, he was named a Wisden Cricketer of the Year.
In 1983, learned men of Kashmiri politics testified that Kashmiris had always wanted to be independent.
In 1984 a high court bench reversed the 1976 verdict and maintained that "the Quaid was definitely not a Shia", which suggested that Jinnah was Sunni.
In 1984, India gained Siachen after launching a short military action.
In 1984, Zia held a referendum asking for support for his religious programme; he received overwhelming support.
In 1984, Zia ul Haq regime faced another attempt of coup d'etat just four years after the 1980 attempt.
In 1985, Khan nominated Nawaz as Chief Minister of Punjab, against the wishes of Prime Minister Muhammad Khan Junejo.
In 1985, ten (10) seats were increased to twenty (20) whereas, the reserved seats for women were increased to sixty (60) in 2002 during the era of General Pervaiz Musharraf.
In 1985, the National Assembly elected through non-party elections doubled women's reserved quota (20 percent).
In 1986, Shah decided to construct a mosque within the premises of an ancient Hindu temple inside the New Civil Secretariat area in Jammu to be made available to the Muslim employees for 'Namaz'.
In 1986, it was supplemented by a new blasphemy provision also applied to Ahmadi Muslims (See Persecution of Ahmadis).
In 1987, Khan led Pakistan to its first Test series win in India, followed by its first series victory in England the same year.
In 1987, President Zia-ul-Haq offered Khan a post in the Pakistan Muslim League (PML), which he declined.
In 1987, he became a brigade commander of a new brigade of the SSG near Siachen Glacier.
In 1988, Benazir Bhutto (Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto's daughter) became the first female Prime Minister of Pakistan, and the first woman elected to head a Muslim country.
In 1988, Bhutto published her autobiography, sub-titled Daughter of the East in its British edition and Daughter of Destiny in the United States.
In 1988, General Zia dismissed the government of Junejo and called for new elections.
In 1988, a mutual understanding was reached between the two countries in which each pledged not to attack nuclear facilities.
In 1988, he led Pakistan on a successful West Indies tour.
In 1988, the general elections were held again which marked the PPP coming in power but dismissed in two years following the lawlessness situation in the country.
In 1989, Benazir Bhutto made a quick visit in the U.S. asking U.S. to stop financing the Afghan mujahideen to President George H. W. Bush, which she marked "America's Frankenstein".
In 1989, Bhutto ordered a military intervention in Afghanistan, which failed, leading her to dismiss the directors of the intelligence services.
In 1989, Pakistan rejoined, despite Pakistan's suspension from the Commonwealth of Nations between 1999 and 2008.
In 1989, Soviet ambassador to Pakistan offered Pakistan to install a commercial nuclear power plant in the country, however after U.S. intervention, the plans were sent into cold storage.
In 1989, a widespread popular and armed insurgency started in Kashmir.
In 1989, an armed insurgency erupted against Indian rule in Indian-administered Kashmir Valley, after years of political disenfranchisement and alienation, with logistical support from Pakistan.
In 1989, she attended the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Kuala Lumpur, where Pakistan was re-admitted to the Commonwealth of Nations.
In 1990, Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan sent a fare well message to Moscow in an attempt to set up the economic coordination between the two countries.
In 1990, Bhutto gave birth to her first daughter, Bakhtawar.
In 1990, Nawaz Sharif of Islami Jamhoori Ittehad (IJI) won the elections.
In 1990, the general elections saw the right-wing alliance forming the government but dismissed in 1993 after the alliance collapsed.
In 1990, they made Pakistan the first Muslim country to launch a satellite, Badr-I.
In 1991, Benazir Bhutto headed a high-level economic delegation to Central Asia and Russia after the collapse of Soviet Union.
In 1991, she received Sitara-i-Imtiaz, Pakistan's highest honour in arts.
In 1991, the PML-N's government established the National Highway Authority followed by inaugurating the M2 Motorways in 1997.
In 1991–93, he secured a two-star promotion, elevating him to the rank of major general and held the command of 40th Division as its GOC, stationed in Okara Military District in Punjab Province.
In 1992, Pakistan became an associate member of the Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research.
In 1993, Bhutto declared that her family burial ground would be converted into an official mausoleum and would undergo significant expansion.
In 1993, Major-General Julian Peter was the first Christian to be appointed at the command position while Hercharn Singh became the first Sikh to be commissioned in the army.
In 1993, Nawaz established the Institute of Nuclear Engineering (INE) to promote his policy for the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
In 1993, Peoples Party won the election again.
In 1993, he was appointed tourism ambassador in the caretaker government of Moeenuddin Ahmad Qureshi for three months until it was dissolved.
In 1993, the People's Party secured the majority in the general election, forming an unusual coalition with fundamentalist JUI(F) and the Awami National Party (ANP).
In 1993, the alliance dissolved and the party assumed its current shape, branding itself as the "Nawaz" faction of the Pakistan Muslim League, in contrast to the "Junejo" faction.
In 1993–95, Major-General Musharraf worked closely with the Chief of Army Staff as Director-General of Pakistan Army's Directorate General for the Military Operations (DGMO).
In 1994 and 1995 they made a "train march" from Karachi to Peshawar, making critical speeches to huge crowds.
In 1994 she successfully approached France for the transfer of Air-independent propulsion technology.
In 1994, the NGO International Commission of Jurists sent a fact finding mission to Kashmir.
In 1995, Benazir Bhutto made another state visit to the United States and held talks with U.S. president Bill Clinton.
In 1995, Benazir also appointed Admiral Mansurul Haq as the Chief of Naval Staff, as the Admiral had personal contacts with the Benazir's family.
In 1995, Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, fearing a military coup that could make him Prime Minister, responded with punitive measures.
In 1995, Zardari purchased a fifteen-bedroom country house at Rockwood in Surrey, southern England; to hide evidence of ownership, he obtained the property through companies based in the Isle of Man.
In 1995, a coup attempt against the government of Benazir Bhutto led by Maj. Gen. Zahirul Islam Abbasi with the support of Islamic extremists failed.
In 1995, the ISI reported to Bhutto that Narasimha Rao had authorised nuclear tests and that they could be conducted at any minute.
In 1995–1996, the Peoples Party under Benazir Bhutto's era opened computer literacy centres to provide the public with access to computers and technology.
In 1996, Asghar Khan filed a lawsuit challenging the results of the 1990 elections, following the discovery of the Mehran bank scandal.
In 1996, Benazir Bhutto met with Japanese officials and warned India about conducting nuclear tests.
In 1996, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf was formed.
In 1996, Russia for the first time signed an agreement on the supply of multi-purpose Mi-17 helicopters to Pakistan.
In 1996, Russia willingly agreed to launch Pakistan's second satellite, Badr-B, from its Baikonur Cosmodrome for the lowest possible charges.
In 1996, The Wall Street Journal said he used populist rhetoric, blending anti-elite messages with religious appeals.
In 1996, Transparency International ranked Pakistan as the world's second most corrupt country.
In 1996, seven weeks after this incident, Benazir Bhutto's government was dismissed by her own hand-picked president on charges of Murtaza Bhutto's death.
In 1996, when sisters Shaiza and Sharmeen Khan first tried to introduce women's cricket in Pakistan, they were met with court cases and even death threats.
In 1997 general election, Nawaz Sharif called for fresh presidential elections and nominated Rafiq Tarar for the presidency.
In 1997, 13th amendment were passed and prime minister again got executive powers.
In 1997, Chief Justice S.A. Shah found Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of contempt of court but the order itself was voided by the Supreme Judicial Council.
In 1997, Nawaz Sharif was elected as Prime Minister.
In 1997, Nawaz signed a trilateral free trade agreement with Malaysia and Singapore, which was followed by collaboration in defence.
In 1997, President Farooq Leghari could not overcome the heavy mandate bestowed on Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif by the public in 1997.
In 1997, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif attempted to warm relations with Russia after sending farewell messages to Russian Federation.
In 1997, environmental PSAs were regularly paid for by the government to enhance and promote environmental awareness among the public.
In 1997, high-level Indo-Pakistan talks resumed after a three-year pause.
In 1997, the MQM removed the term Muhajir (which denoted the party's roots among the country's Urdu-speaking community) from its name and replaced it with Muttahida ("United").
In 1997, the Nawaz Sharif government formally enacted the Qisas and Diyat Ordinance, which institutes shariah-based changes in Pakistan's criminal law.
In 1997, the party secured its win with an overwhelming mandate, with only a small opposition.
In 1998, India and Pakistan made an agreement recognising the principle of building an environment of peace and security and resolving all bilateral conflicts.
In 1998, Switzerland issued a request for the arrest of Bhutto on suspicion of money laundering.
In 1998, the law and order situation came under the PML-N's control and economic recovery was also secured.
In 1999 martial law against Sharif, Musharraf appointed himself President in 2001.
In 1999, Benazir leaked the information that Nawaz Sharif would be deposed that there is (nothing) that Americans want to support Nawaz Sharif or the democracy in Pakistan.
In 1999, Nawaz signed the executive decree, declaring 28 May as the National Science Day in Pakistan.
In 1999, an armed conflict between the two countries broke out again in Kargil with no effect on the status quo.
In 1999, at least 1000 women were murdered in Pakistan and 90% of women reported being subject to domestic violence.
In 1999, military rule was again imposed against Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif by the armed forces, resulting in General Pervez Musharraf coming to power for nine years.
In 1999, the Pakistan Army soldiers secretly crossed the Line of Control (LoC) and infiltrated in Kargil on the direct orders issues by General Musharraf, bringing the two nations at the brink of war.
In 1999, the party's government successfully signed the Lahore Declaration with India.
In 2000 Kamran Atif, an alleged member of Harkat-ul Mujahideen al-Alami, tried to assassinate Musharraf.
In 2000 the government issued a nationwide amnesty to the political workers of liberal parties, sidelining the conservatives and leftists in the country.
In 2000, the Church of Pakistan ordained its first women deacons.
In 2000, the Supreme Court accepted arguments that the coup was a "violation of the constitution".
In 2000, the excerpts of the Supplementary Report were leaked to a political correspondent of Pakistan's Dawn, which the Dawn published together with India Today.
In 2001, General Musharraf issued the executive decree, of which, President Tarar was of the view that such decree was unconstitutional and illegal.
In 2001, MQM boycotted the local body elections but in the 2002 general elections, MQM won 17 out of 272 seats in national assembly.
In 2001, Musharraf got on stage with the rock music band, Junoon, and sang the national song with the band.
In 2001, Musharraf issued the executive decree and eventually forced President Rafiq Tarar to resign in order for Musharraf to assume the presidency.
In 2001, Musharraf seized the presidency through a legal order and a referendum but was constitutionally confirmed in this capacity in 2004.
In 2001, US President George W. Bush pressured the government into joining the US the war on terror.
In 2001, a summit was called in Agra; Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf turned up to meet Indian Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee.
In 2001, citizens participated in general elections, but those elections were criticized as deeply flawed by domestic and international observers.
In 2001, the Muslim League (Nawaz) formally adopted the name of Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N), also known as PML(N).
In 2001, the PML(N) and its rival PPP reached a compromised when the formed democracy restoration alliance in a view to oust President Musharraf.
In 2001, the party was further divided by factionalism.
In 2001–2002, there were additional amendments made that further empowers the Supreme Court and its institutional powers to struck any federal authority found on the charges of contempt of court.
In 2002 (and later during court trials in 2005), the case of Mukhtaran Mai brought the plight of rape victims in Pakistan under an international spotlight.
In 2002 it was recorded that 81.5% of 15- to 19-year-old girls from high-income families had attended school while 22.3% of girls from low-income families had ever attended school.
In 2002 three Pakistani men were arrested in the city of Lahore when one of their relatives turned them in for engaging in same-sex sexual acts at a private party.
In 2002, Admiral Bokhari quoted that: he knew about General Musharraf's plans to topple [Prime Minister] Nawaz Sharif and did not want to be part of these "Dirty Games".
In 2002, Musharraf amended the constitution to ban anyone serving more than two terms as prime minister, thus disqualifying both Bhutto and Sharif, whom he called "useless politicians".
In 2002, it was alleged that when the Egyptian investigators tracked down Al-Qaeda member Ahmed Said Khadr in Pakistan, the Egyptian authorities informed Pakistani authorities of his location.
In 2003, the US officially forgave US$1 billion in Pakistani debt in a ceremony in Pakistan in turn for Pakistan joining the US "war on terror".
In 2003, the bilateral trade between Russia and Pakistan reached to 92 million US dollar, which increased to 411.4 million in 2006.
In 2003, the nephew of the Quaid-i-Azam, Akbar Pirbhai, re-ignited the controversy by suggesting that Fatima Jinnah's death in 1967 was an assassination by the Ayub Khan establishment.
In 2004, Musharraf began a series of talks with India to resolve the Kashmir dispute on the sidelines of the 12th SAARC summit in Islamabad.
In 2004, Pakistan became a Major non-NATO ally of the United States.
In 2004, a UK court ruled that Rockwood Estate in Surrey—which Zardari owned, despite his repeated denials—should be sold and the proceeds given to the Pakistani state, who were the rightful owners.
In 2004, a road in Pakistani capital Islamabad leading to the Diplomatic Enclave was named "Zhou Enlai Road".
In 2004, during the Indian cricket team's tour of Pakistan, he appeared as a commentator on TEN Sports' live show, Straight Drive.
In 2004, he secured his reappointment for the presidency; though the opposition and religious alliance boycotted the elections.
In 2004, it was reported that Lahore alone has 10,000 active transvestites.
In 2004, the two countries also agreed upon decreasing the number of troops present in the region.
In 2004–2006, the military observers from the army were deployed to guide the Sri Lankan army to end the civil war with the Tamil fighters.
In 2005 Syria and Pakistan agreed on mutual cooperation in the fields of science and technology.
In 2005, 32 Hindus were killed by firing from the government side near Nawab Akbar Bugti's residence during bloody clashes between Bugti tribesmen and paramilitary forces in Balochistan.
In 2005, General Musharraf, as well as other Pakistani leaders, sought to resolve the Kashmir issue through the Chenab formula road map.
In 2005, Pakistan's information minister, Sheikh Rashid, was alleged to have run a terrorist training camp in 1990 in N.W.
In 2005, a corruption case was filed in the National Accountability Bureau (NAB) against then managing director Syed Muhammad Amjad who was involved in the corruption.
In 2005, the Bugti clan attacked a gas field in Balochistan, after Dr. Shazia was raped at that location.
In 2006 Al-Qaeda claim they have established a wing in Kashmir, which worried the Indian government.
In 2006 a commercial agreement was celebrated between Pakistan and Mercosur (a trade bloc of which Uruguay is part).
In 2006, Afghan president Hamid Karzai warned that "Iran and Pakistan and others are not fooling anyone" when it comes to interfering in his country.
In 2006, Human Rights Watch accused ISI and the military of systemic torture with the purpose of "punishing" errant politicians, political activists and journalists in Azad Kashmir.
In 2006, King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia visited Pakistan for the first time as King.
In 2006, President Pervez Musharraf passed the Protection of Women Act.
In 2006, The Protection of Women (Criminal Laws Amendment) Act was also passed.
In 2006, a "Friends Without Borders" scheme began with the help of two British tourists.
In 2006, army recruiters began recruiting Hindus into the army and people of all faith or no faith can be promoted to any rank or commanding position in the army.
In 2006, the Pakistani National Accountability Bureau (NAB) accused Bhutto, Malik and Ali Jaffery of owning Petrofine.
In 2006, the first women fighter pilot batch joined the combat aerial mission command of PAF.
In 2006, the party signed a cooperative declaration with its rival Pakistan People's Party to outline and promote a new democratic culture in the country.
In 2006, while visiting his children in London, he also worked with the Lord's Taverners cricket charity.
In 2007 Sharif made a daring attempt to return from exile but was refrained from landing at Islamabad Airport.
In 2007, Afghan intelligence captured Muhammad Hanif, the Taliban spokesman.
In 2007, Der Spiegel compared him to Franz Beckenbauer for his popularity and influence in Pakistan.
In 2007, Musharraf again restored his appointment after the opposition parties also boycotted the elections.
In 2007, Nawaz Sharif with his family, accompanied by his daughter, returned to Pakistan with thousands of his supporters receiving Sharif family.
In 2007, President Musharraf eventually imposed another martial law by having suspended the populist Chief Justice IM Chaudhry, leveling charges of corruption and misconduct.
In 2007, he violated the agreement and attempted to return to Pakistan but was deported.
In 2007, mass anti-Musharraf protests broke out in what was known as the Lawyers' Movement.
In 2007, the government proposed a fifth high court to cover the Islamabad Capital Territory.
In 2007, the relations between Pakistan and the Russian Federation were reactivated after the 3-day official visit of Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov.
In 2008 the Pakistani government partially lifted its 42-year ban on screening Indian movies in Pakistan.
In 2008, 85 security personnel died compared to 613 in 2001, while 102 militants were killed.
In 2008, Asif Ali Zardari was elected president.
In 2008, Foreign Policy released a Global Cities Index which named Mustafa Kamal as Mayor of the Moment, but Kamal gave all credit to Altaf Hussain.
In 2008, NSA Director Mike McConnell confronted ISI Director Ahmad Shuja Pasha, claiming that the ISI was tipping off jihadists so that they could escape in advance of American attacks against them.
In 2008, Pakistan had purchased military equipment from China for an improved quality of defence arsenal and force to fight the constant attack from foreign militants.
In 2008, Sharif spearheaded the judicial activism in order to protest the suspension of Chief Justice I.M.
In 2008, a further (minor) split of JUI (F) resulted in the formation of a third faction, known as JUI-N ("N" for Nazryati "Ideological").
In 2008, authorities said that 43,000 people have been killed in the violence.
In 2008, it was recorded that 21.8 percent of females were participating in the labor force in Pakistan while 82.7 percent of men were involved in labor.
In 2008, the Pakistani cabinet authorized negotiations for the establishment of a Joint Economic Commission, that was finalized in 2009.
In 2008, the death toll from the last 20 years was estimated by Indian authorities to be over 47,000.
In 2009, he was inducted into the ICC Cricket Hall of Fame.
In 2009, protests started over the alleged rape and murder of two young women in Shopian in South Kashmir.
In 2009, the Pakistani Supreme Court ruled in favour of a group of transvestites.
In 2009, the Pakistani government implemented an autonomy package for Gilgit-Baltistan, which entails rights similar to those of Pakistan's other provinces.
In 2009, the UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon established a three-person team to lead the investigation comprising the Chilean Heraldo Muñoz, Irish Peter FitzGerald, and Indonesian Marzuki Darusman.
In 2009, the issue of establishing the International Crimes Tribunal began to take public support.
In 2009–11, Gillani, under pressure from the public and co-operating with the United States, ordered the armed forces to launch military campaigns against Taliban forces in the north-west of Pakistan.
In 2010, The Supreme Court of Pakistan overturned Nawaz' conviction, making him eligible to run for power again.
In 2010, a corruption scandal was unearthed that involved two Pakistan Army generals, (Maj Gen Khalid Zaheer Akhtar and Lt Gen Muhammad Afzal), and caused a loss of Rs.
In 2010, it was reported that more than 1,000 honour killing occur every year in Pakistan and India.
In 2010, the Awami League's government decided to set up a tribunal to prosecute the people involved in alleged war crimes and those who collaborated with Pakistan.
In 2010, the Parliament unanimously and with a large majority, passed the eighteenth amendment of the constitution.
In 2010, the XVIII Amendment to the Constitution of Pakistan was passed to reverse the XVII amendment; it returned the country to being a parliamentary democratic republic.
In 2010, with the support of its intelligence agencies, Pakistan again 'boosted' Kashmir militants, and recruitment of mujahideen in the Pakistani state of Punjab has increased.
In 2011 China Kingho Group cancelled a $19 billion mining deal because of security concerns.
In 2011 steps were taken by Gillani to block all major NATO supply lines after a border skirmish between NATO and Pakistan.
In 2011, Dr Syed Abdul Aziz, director of Hamdard Institute of Education and Social Sciences declared education as one of the most corrupt sectors in Pakistan.
In 2011, Nawaz's assets were worth Rs 166 million, which increased to Rs 1.82 billion by 2013.
In 2011, Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani and Vladimir Putin held a frank discussion in a cordial atmosphere on the 10th Heads of Government meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
In 2011, both countries initiated the work on the framework n the proposed Free Trade Agreement and currency swap arrangement to boost bilateral trade and further strengthen their economic ties.
In 2011, he also lectured at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace on politics and racism where he also authored and published a paper with George Perkvich.
In 2011, the PML-N established a branch in Kashmir Province to participate in Kashmir's general elections.
In 2011, the state humans right commission said it had evidence that 2,156 bodies had been buried in 40 graves over the last 20 years.
In 2012, Musharraf's senior officer and retired major-general Abdul Majeed Malik maintained that Kargil was a "total disaster" and bitterly criticised General Musharraf.
In 2012, Russian president Vladimir Putin announced to pay a state visit to Pakistan soon after his re-election, later he cancelled it, citing other crucial engagement.
In 2012, only 10% of Americans expressed trust in Pakistan.
In 2012, the Supreme Court of Pakistan declared this election "rigged in favor" of the Pakistan Muslim League.
In 2012, the Supreme Court of Pakistan recognized substantial evidence of rigging in the 1990 elections.
In 2012, the government revived the National Commission on the Status of Women established by General Musharraf for three years in 2000, later revived for three years at a time.
In 2013 Ashraf Jehan became the first female justice of the Federal Shariat Court.
In 2013 alone more than 400 Shia have been killed in targeted attacks that took place across Pakistan.
In 2013, Khan proposed secret talks between India and Pakistan to resolve the Kashmir issue, saying open negotiations risk being subverted by vested interests on both sides.
In 2013, PTI took part in the elections and won 35 seats in the National Assembly of Pakistan.
In 2013, after the change in the federal government, MNA Shaista Pervaiz Malik from Pakistan Muslim League Nawaz became the Secretary of Women's Parliamentary Caucus.
In 2013, the Supreme Court took suo motu actions against populist Imran Khan of criticising against the judgement of the Supreme Court's senior judges in regards to the elections.
In 2013, the United States conducted a raid on an Afghan convoy that was taking Latif Mehsud to Kabul.
In 2013, the party returned to power with Sharif elected as the prime minister for an unprecedented third term following the general elections, with Sharif.
In 2013, this figure increased to 90% of Pakistanis having a favourable view of China.
In 2014 a Pakistani man sought asylum in Australia for fear of being jailed for homosexuality in Pakistan.
In 2014, Canadian rock band Nickelback released the politically themed single "Edge of a Revolution", featuring a brief clip of a PTI rally with party flags and a poster of him.
In 2014, Labour leader, Safdar Ali Abbasi, formed the Workers faction amid disagreement with party's fiscal policy.
In 2014, Musharraf was declared an "absconder" in the Bugti and Bhutto assassination cases by virtue of moving to Dubai due to failing health.
In 2014, during the visit of Russian Defence Minister Sergey Shoygu, Pakistan and Russia signed an agreement on military cooperation.
In 2014, then-PTI president Javed Hashmi alleged Khan was instructed by the army to coordinate his protests with Pakistan Awami Tehreek (PAT).
In 2015 Pakistan's outgoing National Security Advisor Sartaj Aziz said that Pakistan wished to have third party mediation on Kashmir, but it was unlikely to happen unless by international pressure.
In 2015 a private garment factory was lit on fire and the flames ignited chemicals that were stored in the factory.
In 2015, Inter-Services Intelligence and National Directorate of Security inked a memorandum of understanding.
In 2015, both of them were convicted by the military court of Pakistan.
In 2015, his declared assets slightly decreased to ₨1.75 billion ($17.5 Million).
In 2015, the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor was initiated.
In 2015, the HRCP expressed concern over the rise in extrajudicial killings and lack of transparency about the number of MQM activists picked up or later let off.
In 2016 Jammu and Kashmir Coalition of Civil Society said there are more than 8000 forced disappearances.
In 2016, Hashmi said Khan had "conspired" with "disgruntled elements in the army".
In 2016, Musharraf later confessed in an interview given to Kamran Shahid of Dunya that "he pardoned Nawaz Sharif from life imprisonment on the request of King Abdullah and Rafic Hariri".
In 2016, Provincial Assembly of the Punjab passed a legislature, the Punjab Protection of Women against Violence Act 2016.
In 2016, basic membership of Mufti Abdul Qawi was suspended and later he was expelled after a controversy erupted over selfies he took with the model Qandeel Baloch.
In 2016, he called the future of Pakistan as one underpinned as an "educated, progressive, forward looking and an enterprising nation".
In 2016, media speculated about his possible third marriage, linked to his spiritual ties with the Maneka family of Pakpattan.
In 2016-17, Pakistan economy suffered $5.47 billion and $2.07 billion on 2017-18.
In 2017 China's exports to Pakistan grew by 5.9% to reach $18.25 billion whereas Pakistan's exports to China fell by 4.1% to $1.83 billion.
In 2017 the Constitution (Twenty-seventh Amendment) Act, 2017 was proposed to the Constitution of Pakistan.
In 2017, Afghanistan's Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah admitted that Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has a foothold in Afghanistan.
In 2017, General Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, accused the ISI of having ties to terror groups.
In 2017, Kulbhushan Jadhav, an Indian national was arrested in March 2016 by Pakistani authorities and charged with espionage and sabotage.
In 2017, Musharraf appeared as a political analyst on his weekly television show Sab Se Pehle Pakistan with President Musharraf, hosted by BOL News.
In 2017, Nawaz was again removed from office by the Supreme Court of Pakistan following the Panama Papers case.
In 2017, PTI member Ayesha Gulalai alleged that he, then party chairman, sexually harassed her.
In 2017, The Lahore High Court lifted the ban, claiming that the world had become a global village and asked how long will unreasonable restrictions be imposed.
In 2017, The Tehreek-e-Labbaik allotted the crane as its election symbol.
In 2017, in an interview with Manchester Evening News, a 40-year-old woman who used the name Zayna talked about her life as a lesbian Muslim in Pakistan before she moved to the United Kingdom.
In 2017, it was reported that Nusrat has parted ways with MQM London which was later confirmed in May 2018 by MQM's London based leadership.
In 2017, the ECP reported that Khan's 300-kanal Bani Gala residence in Islamabad was valued at Rs.
In 2017, the Lahore High Court ordered the Government to include transgender people in the national census.
In 2017, the Panama Papers case resulted in the disqualification of Sharif by verdict of the Supreme Court.
In 2018, Bhutto's friend Ron Suskind described the marriage as "probably not all bad", although added that Bhutto did not consider her husband to be an equal partner in the marriage.
In 2018, Nisha Rao attained her law degree from Karachi's Sindh Muslim Law College and became Pakistan's first transgender lawyer.
In 2018, Pakistani newspaper Dawn News reported that the Pakistani economy suffered a total loss of $126.79 billion since 2001 due to the war on terror.
In 2018, Reuters described him as a Pakistani cricket icon and former London playboy who had "transformed himself into a pious, firebrand nationalist".
In 2018, Sareer Ahmed, the principal of Islamia College in Charsadda, was murdered by a 17-year-old student who he had reprimanded for missing a number of classes.
In 2018, an accountability court convicted Nawaz Sharif, his daughter Maryam Nawaz, and his son-in-law Capt.
In 2018, party membership of Hamid Khan was suspended and a show cause notice was issued for "defaming and maligning" the party.
In 2018, she was sworn in as the 18th chief justice of the Balochistan High Court (BHC).
In 2018, the Pakistani Supreme Court disqualified Nawaz from holding public office, and he was also sentenced to ten years in prison by an accountability court.
In 2018, when the Dutch politician Geert Wilders announced that he was planning to hold a contest to draw caricatures of Muhammad, there were large protests in Pakistan against it.
In 2019, Ayman al-Zawahari labelled ISI and the Pakistani military a "puppet" of the United States in a video message.
In 2019, a woman journalist was allegedly murdered by her husband - who was also a journalist - because she refused to quit her job.
In 2019, he moved to London for medical treatment on bail.
In 2019, he was named in the Time 100 list of most influential people.
In 2019, the Prime Minister has constituted an Institutional Reforms cell (IRC) under the Cabinet Division.
In 2019, the United States Department of Defense claimed that about 3,000 to 5,000 terrorists belonging to TTP are in Afghanistan.
In 2020, Nigar Johar became the first female Lieutenant General in the army, she was from the Pakistan Army Medical Corps.
In 2020, Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) was formed of many parties as a movement against then prime minister Imran Khan.
In 2020, a 15-year-old Hindu girl was kidnapped, forcibly converted and married to a Muslim man.
In 2020, a mob of local Muslims led by a local Islamic cleric and supporters of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (F) party attacked the historic Hindu temple in the Karak district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
In 2020, a transgender woman named Gul Panra was shot dead in the Pakistani city of Peshawar.
In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic spread across the country.
In 2020, the passing percentage was only 1.962.
In 2021, Khan called on Muslim countries to press the West to criminalise insults against Prophet Muhammad, likening it to laws against Holocaust denial.
In 2021, Khan penned a CNN op-ed advocating conservation and restoration of damaged natural ecosystems.
In 2021, a stealthy variant Of China's Z-20, dubbed a 'Black Hawk Clone' by external observers was revealed to the public in a concept form.
In 2021, after the Pandora Papers revealed some of his ministers' offshore holdings, he said any wrongdoing was their "individual acts and they will have to be held accountable".
In 2021, official records showed that PM House expenses and PM Office budget fell by 49% and 29%, respectively.
In 2021, only 364 (2.11%) of the 17,240 participants cleared the multi-staged exam.
In 2021, she was also nominated for the post of Chief Justice of Pakistan.
In 2022, Freedom House rated Pakistan’s human rights at 37 out of 100 (partly free).
In 2022, his income rose to Rs185.68 million due to the sale of a watch gifted by a foreign dignitary; the year before, it was just over Rs7 million.
In 2022, the passing percentage decreased to 1.85%.
In 2023 the National Assembly Secretariat would constitute the Pasban-e-Aman (پاسبان امان) Force for the security of the Parliament House.
In 2023, PEMRA directed news channels to refrain from reporting on people who propagate hate speech, a move that was widely understood to prevent them from reporting on Imran Khan.
In 2023, The Daily Telegraph reported that Lt. General Asim Munir proposed an investigation into corruption allegations involving Khan's wife, Bushra Bibi, during Khan's tenure in June 2019.
In 2023, after four years of exile, he returned to Pakistan and was subsequently acquitted in the Avenfield and Al-Azizia Steel Mills cases by the Islamabad High Court.
In 2023, political chaos, economic crisis and security threats tested Pakistan’s fragile state as the military sought to retain control.
In 2023, the Khan-led PTI dissolved two of its provincial assemblies (Punjab and KP), to attempt to cause early elections in 60% of the country due on 30 April 2023 and 28 May 2023, respectively.
In 2023, the number of unresolved cases before the Supreme Court increased by 7 percent.
In 2024 Pakistan was autocratizing according to V-Dem Democracy indices.
In 2024, Arab News wrote that Khan was widely believed to have risen to power in 2018 with military backing.
In 2024, The New York Times wrote that Lt. Gen. Faiz Hameed, a former ISI chief, was an ally of his.
In 2024, at least 10 people accused of blasphemy were killed in mob or vigilante violence, according to the Center for Social Justice Pakistan.
In 2024, the Twenty-Sixth Constitutional Amendment Act was enacted on 21 October, introducing landmark reforms to Pakistan's judicial system, with a focus on the Supreme Court and High Courts.
In 2025, he was nominated by the Norwegian political party Partiet Sentrum and the advocacy organisation Pakistan World Alliance for his contributions to human rights and democratic values.
In 2025, the Twenty-Seventh Amendment Bill focused mostly on the military structure and the civil-military relations.
In 2025, the U.S.-Pakistan relationship faced renewed complexity as Pakistan navigated its ties with China and the escalating Iran-Israel conflict.
In Afghanistan (147th) and in Pakistan (151st), Islamist groups bear much of the responsibility for their country's pitifully low ranking.
In April 1913, he again went to Britain, with Gokhale, to meet with officials on behalf of the Congress.
In April 1954, the general elections were held for the East Pakistan Legislative Assembly, in which the Pakistan Muslim League lost to the pan-Bengali nationalist United Front alliance.
In April 1979, the United States suspended most economic assistance to Pakistan over concerns about Pakistan's atomic bomb project under the Foreign Assistance Act.
In April 1989, opposition parties organised a parliamentary no-confidence vote in Bhutto's leadership, but it was defeated by 12 votes.
In April 1999, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif paid an important state visit to Kremlin, this was the first trip to Moscow paid by a Pakistani Prime Minister in 25 years, but no breakthrough was made.
In April 2000, Sharif was convicted of treason and sentenced to life imprisonment.
In April 2006 an NAB court froze assets owned in Pakistan and elsewhere by Bhutto and Zardari.
In April 2007, the mosque administration started to encourage attacks on local video shops, alleging that they were selling porn films; and massage parlors, which were alleged to be used as brothels.
In April 2009, the Shariat Appellate Bench of the Supreme Court considered the appeal.
In April 2010 a high-profile Pakistani cricketer, Shoaib Malik married the Indian tennis star Sania Mirza.
In April 2012, Farman Ali Shinwari a former member of Kashmiri separatist groups Harkat-ul-Mujahideen and Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami, was appointed chief of al-Qaeda in Pakistan.
In April 2018 former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif was given a lifetime ban on political activities.
In April 2022, Khan became the country's first prime minister to be removed from office through a no-confidence motion in Parliament.
In April 2022, he became the first Pakistani prime minister to be removed from office through a no-confidence motion.
In April 2025, at least 1,755 women were reported to have been deported in the first week of the month.
In April 2025, three suspected militants and an Indian army officer were killed in separate encounters in the Indian-controlled region.
In April, Pakistan expelled over 80,000 Afghan nationals.
In April, the exiled Awami League leaders formed a government-in-exile in Baidyanathtala of Meherpur.
In Asrar-i-Khudi, Iqbal explains his philosophy of "Khudi", or "Self".
In August 1947, nine years after Iqbal's death, the partition of India gave way to the establishment of Pakistan, a newly independent Islamic state in which Iqbal was honoured as the national poet.
In August 1974, he played his first One Day International (ODI) match, again against England, at Trent Bridge for the Prudential Trophy.
In August 1990, Khan dismissed Bhutto's government under the Eighth Amendment of the constitution.
In August 1992, he began dating Kristiane Backer, a German MTV host; he introduced her to Islam during their nearly three-year relationship.
In August 2002, he issued the Legal Framework Order No.
In August 2005, Declan Walsh called him a "miserable politician", saying "Khan's ideas and affiliations since entering politics in 1996 have swerved and skidded like a rickshaw in a rainshower...
In August 2007, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Zalmay Khalizad, had several meetings with Bhutto in New York City.
In August 2014, the Sharif administration unveiled an ambitious programme to enhance exports to US$150 billion by 2025.
In August 2016, after Altaf Hussain's controversial 22 August speech, there was a crackdown on the party.
In August 2019, India revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir through Parliament, abolishing Article 370 and rendering the state Constitution infructuous.
In August 2023, The Intercept published leaked Cypher No.
In August 2024, Zulfi Bukhari said he submitted an application for Khan to contest the University of Oxford Chancellor election.
In August 2024, he said the ISI controls all matters of his imprisonment and has made his jail conditions harsher.
In August the Chitral Scouts and Chitral Bodyguard under Mata ul-Mulk besieged Skardu and with the help of artillery were able to take Skardu.
In August, Zia suddenly died when his aircraft crashed shortly after take-off from Bahawalpur Airport.
In Balochistan, for example, female literacy rate stands between 15 and 25%.
In Balochistan, he directed his party to back the Balochistan Awami Party, which nominated Jam Kamal Khan as chief minister and Abdul Quddus Bizenjo as speaker.
In Balochistan, the pernicious practice of Shishak and Sardari System was abolished.
In Bhutto's political will, she had designated her son Bilawal, who was then 19, as her political heir as chair of the PPP.
In Bhutto's view, Japan had been under the United States' influence, and a much bigger role of Japan in Asia would only benefit American interests in the region.
In Chicago, a portion of Devon Avenue was named "Mohammed Ali Jinnah Way".
In Dec 2006, Albanian Deputy Foreign Minister Mr. Anton Gurakqui visited Pakistan to hold bilateral consultation with Pakistani political leadership.
In December 1912, Jinnah addressed the annual meeting of the Muslim League although he was not yet a member.
In December 1928, Khan and Jinnah decided to discuss the Nehru Report.
In December 1947, India referred the conflict to the United Nations Security Council, requesting it to prevent the outbreak of a general war between the two fledgling nations.
In December 1970, nationwide general elections were held simultaneously for both the national and five provincial assemblies.
In December 1971, Pakistan carried out unsuccessful pre-emptive strikes against the Bengali-allied Indian Army, culminating in the start of the Third India–Pakistan War.
In December 1971, Zulfikar assumed the presidency of Pakistan, the first democratically elected leader after 13 years of military rule.
In December 1971, the 33rd infantry division was established from the army reserves of the II Corps, followed by raising the 37th Infantry Division.
In December 1985, martial law was lifted in Pakistan and Bhutto decided to return home.
In December 1989, Nawaz decided to remain in the provincial Punjab Assembly rather than hold a seat in the National Assembly.
In December 1993, the blasphemy laws of Pakistan were extended to Pakistan Administered Kashmir.
In December 2001, Musharraf authorised security hearings and the two scientists were taken into the custody by the JAG Branch (JAG); security hearings continued until early 2002.
In December 2003, Musharraf made a deal with MMA, a six-member coalition of hardline Islamist parties, agreeing to leave the army by 31 December 2004.
In December 2004, the Government passed a bill that made karo kari punishable under the same penal provisions as murder.
In December 2005, Khan, then Chancellor of the University of Bradford, signed a memorandum of understanding to establish Namal College in Mianwali as its associate college.
In December 2006, Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz approved the proposal by the Ministry of Women Development to extend this quota to 10%.
In December 2006, for the first time, women cadets from the Military Academy Kakul assumed guard duty at the mausoleum of Muhammad Ali Jinnah.
In December 2018, Nawaz Sharif was sentenced to seven years in prison by an accountability court and fined Rs1.5 billion and US$25 million.
In December 2019, the United Nations Human Rights OHCHR called blasphemy death sentence for Junaid Hafeez, a lecturer at Bahauddin Zakariya University in Multan, a 'travesty of justice'.
In December 2020, Khan said he wanted Nawaz Sharif extradited from London to Pakistan to face trial in the Panama Papers case.
In December 2020, he announced at the Climate Ambition Summit that Pakistan would scrap two coal projects (2,600 MW) and set a target of 60% renewable energy by 2030.
In December 2021, foreign ministers of the 56 nations belonging to the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, along with Taliban delegates, gathered in Islamabad.
In December 2021, the International Press Institute sent an open letter to Khan, citing "grave concerns" over the proposed Pakistan Media Development Authority (PMDA) ordinance.
In December 2022, Minister of State for Petroleum Musadik Malik says the Pakistani government has held fruitful talks with Russia for import of cheap oil, diesel and gas.
In December 2023, he nominated Gohar Ali Khan to replace him as PTI chairman, with Gohar being elected unopposed.
In December 2024, Salman Ahmad, a long-term member of the party, was expelled for describing Bushra Bibi as "corrupt and greedy".
In December, she was moved into house arrest, where she would remain for two years.
In East Pakistan, Ali Khan's lack of attention for the development of the Bengali section of the state brought about a bad juncture for the prime minister and his party, where its ideology was vague.
In East Pakistan, the Awami League, led by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, held almost all seats but no seat in any of four provinces of West Pakistan.
In England, he earned a second BA at Trinity College, Cambridge, and subsequently qualified as a barrister at Lincoln's Inn.
In February 1946, the British Cabinet resolved to send a delegation to India to negotiate with leaders there.
In February 1948, a plebiscite held almost unanimously voted for accession to India.
In February 1993, Bhutto gave birth to her daughter, Asifa.
In February 1997, Nawaz met with Chinese President Jiang Zemin and Premier Li Peng to discuss economic cooperation.
In February 2008, an 11-member Pakistan Trade Delegation visited Lusaka for exploring bilateral trade cooperation.
In February 2010, Anne W. Patterson (U.S.
In February 2010, the Obama administration requested an additional $3 billion in aid, for a total of $20.7 billion.
In February 2012, Rinkle, Lata, and Asha Kumari were allegedly forced to convert from Hinduism to Islam.
In February 2012, the Muttahida Qaumi Movement held the world's largest women's political rally in Karachi, with an estimated 100,000 women in attendance.
In February 2012, the Pakistani official enquiry issued its final report, placing responsibility for the attack with 27 different militant groups.
In February 2014, Nawaz confirmed to the IAEA that all future civilian nuclear power plants and research reactors will voluntarily be put under IAEA safeguards.
In February 2017, the court issued its ruling on test-tube babies and validated its use conditionally.
In February 2018, a Senate committee determined that transgender people could inherit property without being required to have their gender decided by a medical board.
In February 2022, Khan became the first Pakistani prime minister in two decades to visit Moscow to discuss economic and energy cooperation.
In February 2022, he became the first Pakistani prime minister since 2002 to visit Moscow, arriving on the same day the Russian invasion of Ukraine began.
In February 2024, Former Prime Minister Imran Khan's Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party and its allies became the largest group with 93 seats after the 2024 general elections.
In February 2024, Internet services were temporarily restricted across Pakistan’s southwestern Balochistan province ahead of elections.
In February 2025, Imran Khan ordered the expulsion of lawmaker Sher Afzal Marwat for repeated breaches of party discipline.
In Germany, he obtained a PhD in philosophy at the University of Munich, with his thesis focusing on "The Development of Metaphysics in Persia" in 1908.
In Gilgit, the force of Gilgit Scouts under the command of a British officer Major William Brown mutinied and overthrew the governor Ghansara Singh.
In India it was implemented in some regions and not others; and then allowed to lie fallow.
In India, his song "Tarana-e-Hind" is frequently played as a patriotic song speaking of communal harmony.
In India, opposition leaders in parliament blamed the government for starting a nuclear arms race.
In India, the agreement was criticised because it did not contain a no-war pact or any renunciation of guerrilla warfare across Kashmir.
In India, the conflict is also referred to as Operation Vijay (Sanskrit: विजय, lit.
In Iran, Iqbal is known as Iqbāl-e Lāhorī (Persian: اقبال لاهوری) (Iqbal of Lahore).
In Islamabad, troops entered the Supreme Court building, arrested the judges and kept them detained in their homes.
In January 1951, Khan approved the appointment of General Ayub Khan to succeed Gracey as the first native Commander-in-Chief of the Pakistan Army.
In January 1972, Pakistan under Bhutto launched the clandestine development of nuclear weapons with a view to "never to allow[ing] another foreign invasion of Pakistan.
In January 1973, Bhutto ordered the Pakistan Armed Forces to suppress a rising insurgency in the province of Balochistan.
In January 1977, Prime Minister Bhutto immediately started campaigning after called for new general elections.
In January 1983, he became the second cricketer, after Ian Botham, to score a century and take 10 wickets in a Test.
In January 1989, she made a second pilgrimage to Mecca, and in June visited the U.S. to address both houses of Congress and giving the commencement speech at Harvard.
In January 1998, Nawaz signed bilateral economic agreements with South Korean President Kim Young-sam.
In January 2007, Musharraf held his first meeting with Bhutto at a hotel in Abu Dhabi, followed by further talks in June.
In January 2011, the Raymond Allen Davis incident occurred in which Raymond Davis, an alleged private security contractor, shot dead two Pakistani locals.
In January 2014, a policeman standing guard outside a Hindu temple at Peshawar was gunned down.
In January 2017, Sid discussed a new movie she was starring in, Rani, in which she played a transgender woman who finds an abandoned baby and raises it as her own.
In January 2020, President Trump once again held a meeting with Prime Minister Khan in Davos, on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum.
In January 2021, an Anti-Terrorism Court (ATC) convicted and sentenced three men to death for sharing blasphemous content on social media.
In January 2022, Ayesha Malik was sworn in as the first female Supreme Court judge.
In January 2022, Imran Khan strongly supported Pakistan Stream gas pipeline and imports of discounted Russian oil and wheat.
In January 2022, the Federal Board of Revenue's 2019 tax directory said that he paid Rs9.8 million in taxes that year.
In January 2023, Pakistan's National Assembly passed a vote to tighten the country's blasphemy laws, a move that incited concern among minority groups.
In January 2025 former Prime Minister Imran Khan was sentenced to 14 years in prison and fined for leaking state secrets.
In July 1971 Golda Meir, Israel's prime minister, got Israeli arms manufacturer Shlomo Zabludowicz to provide India and the Mukti Bahini with mortars, ammunition and instructors.
In July 1971, Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi openly referred to the former East Pakistan as Bangladesh.
In July 1972, Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and Pakistani President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto met in the Indian hill station of Shimla.
In July 1977, Zulfikar Bhutto—who had just been re-elected in a general election—was overthrown in a military coup ("Operation Fair Play") led by Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, the Chief of Army Staff.
In July 1980, 25,000 Shia protested the Islamization laws in the capital Islamabad.
In July 1981, Nusrat was released so that she could seek medical treatment for cancer abroad, but Bhutto was not.
In July 1985, Shahnawaz died under unexplained circumstances in the French city of Cannes.
In July 1993, under pressure from the armed forces, Nawaz resigned under an agreement that also removed President Khan from power.
In July 2001, Musharraf visited Agra in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, meeting with Vajpayee in a two-day summit.
In July 2009 Pakistani authorities confirmed that LeT plotted and financed the attacks from LeT camps in Karachi and Thatta.
In July 2012, Afghanistan and Pakistan agreed to extend APTTA to Tajikistan in what will be the first step for the establishment of a North–South trade corridor.
In July 2013 the Pew Research Center, as part of their Global Attitudes Project, declared Pakistan to have the most positive view of China in the world.
In July 2013, the Army trained female paratrooper officers for the first time.
In July 2015 The COAS General Raheel Sharif paid a visit to Russia where he was received by the military leadership of Russia at Kremlin.
In July 2016, a young Pakistani man named Ihsan wrote an article in the UK-based gay e-zine Gay Star News about his experiences of being gay in Pakistan.
In July 2018, then Chief Justice of Pakistan, Saqib Nisar, launched a fundraiser for the construction of the Diamer-Bhasha Dam and Mohmand Dam.
In July 2020, he announced the establishment of 15 national parks under the Protected Areas Initiative.
In July 2023, PTI terminated the basic membership of twenty-two lawmakers and party members from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, including its former Chief Minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Mahmood Khan.
In July 2025, President Asif Ali Zardari appointed new chief justices to all four provincial high courts, based on recommendations from the Judicial Commission of Pakistan (JCP).
In July 2025, an Islamabad court banned 27 YouTube channels for allegedly spreading “anti-state” and “false” content.
In July Admiral Mullen alleged that Shahzad's killing had been "sanctioned by the government" of Pakistan, but the ISI denied any involvement in the Shahzad murder.
In July, the Maharaja ordered that all the soldiers in the region be disarmed.
In July, the commission found the elections broadly fair with no systemic rigging.
In June 1945, following the release of the Congress leaders, Wavell called for a conference, and invited the leading figures from the various communities to meet with him at Simla.
In June 1948, he and Fatima flew to Quetta, in the mountains of Balochistan, where the weather was cooler than in Karachi.
In June 1950, Bhutto travelled to the United Kingdom to study law at Christ Church, Oxford and received a BA in jurisprudence, followed by an LLM degree in law and an M.Sc.
In June 1965, British Prime Minister Harold Wilson successfully persuaded both countries to end hostilities.
In June 1971, Bihari representatives said that 500,000 Biharis were killed by Bengalis.
In June 1972, Bhutto visited India to meet Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and negotiated a formal peace agreement and the release of 93,000 Pakistani prisoners of war.
In June 1972, Soviet Ambassador Rodionov said, "the Soviet Union had always stood and would stand for the unity and territorial integrity of Pakistan".
In June 1994, Murtaza was released on bail, and at his subsequent trial he was acquitted of all charges.
In June 1997, the Pakistani government formally requested that the Swiss government review bank accounts owned by Bhutto and her husband.
In June 1997, the foreign secretaries identified eight "outstanding issues" around which continuing talks would be focused.
In June 2010, Pakistan blocked seventeen websites for hosting content that the authorities considered offensive to Muslims.
In June 2011, a Pew Research Center poll showed him with a 68% approval rating, higher than Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani's 37% and President Asif Ali Zardari's 11%.
In June 2011, a US Drone strike killed Ilyas Kashmiri, chief of Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami, a Kashmiri militant group associated with Al-Qaeda.
In June 2014, the Metropolitan Police raided the London home of its leader, Altaf Hussain, on suspicion of money-laundering.
In June 2016, a small clerical body in Lahore known as Tanzeem Ittehad-i-Ummat declared transgender marriages legal under Islamic law.
In June 2020, Khan attended the signing ceremony for the $2.5 billion Kohala Hydropower Project (1,124 MW).
In June 2020, Pakistan was one of 53 countries that backed the Hong Kong national security law at the United Nations.
In June 2020, addressing the National Assembly of Pakistan, he called Osama bin Laden a shaheed (martyr), drawing opposition criticism.
In June 2022, two months after his ouster, FATF removed Pakistan from the grey list, citing completion of the 2018 and 2021 action plans.
In June 2024, appearing before the Supreme Court via video from jail, he said Pakistan is under "undeclared martial law".
In June 2024, the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention called for his release, saying his detention was arbitrary and politically motivated.
In June, Poonchis launched a 'No Tax' campaign.
In Karachi, around 100,000 refugees displaced by the partition of India were moved from slums to new housing colonies.
In Karachi, extra judicial killings against Muhajirs is not a new phenomenon.
In Karachi, he attended the Sindh Madressatul Islam and the Christian Missionary Society High School.
In Karachi, public resentment towards Ayub had been rising since the 1965 elections and his policies were widely disapproved.
In Karachi, thousands marched in protest against the U.S. and Israeli strikes on Iran.
In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, PTI defeated all mainstream political parties across the province with mostly new candidates.
In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, militant groups have bombed girls' schools and pressured several governments to make women's education less attainable through threats.
In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, the ANP had its first chief minister since 1948.
In Lahore there are 46 public colleges out of which 26 are female colleges and some of the others are co-educational.
In March 1951, he survived an attempted coup by left-wing political opponents and segments of the Pakistani military.
In March 1971 regional commander Major General Ziaur Rahman declared the independence of East Pakistan as the new nation of Bangladesh on behalf of Mujib.
In March 2000, Musharraf banned political rallies.
In March 2006, he was escorted home by police and placed under house arrest after threatening to protest against President George W. Bush during his visit to Pakistan.
In March 2009, Abdullah stated that only 800 militants were active in the state and out of these only 30% were Kashmiris.
In March 2009, Pakistan presented a resolution to the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva that called upon the world to formulate laws against the defamation of religion.
In March 2012, PTI announced plans to conduct US-style intra-party elections, aiming to introduce local caucuses on district levels throughout the country.
In March 2015, his party agreed with the Sharif administration to form a judicial commission to probe electoral fraud, a move facilitated by Army Chief General Raheel Sharif.
In March 2017, Mani AQ became the first transgender man in Pakistan's history to officially register himself as male.
In March 2017, a well-known music band featured a transgender model Rimal Ali in their music video.
In March 2019, a third year student at Bahawalpur's Government Sadiq Egerton College, Khateeb Hussain, stabbed associate professor Khalid Hameed in a fatal encounter.
In March 2021, Aslam Abro and Shahryar Shar were expelled from the party for violating party discipline, with their memberships subsequently canceled.
In March 2022, Pakistan led a UN resolution to designate 15 March as the International Day to Combat Islamophobia.
In March 2022, a poll coordinated by Palacký University Olomouc found that 73% of Chinese citizens held favourable views of Pakistan, placing it behind only Russia in that regard.
In March 2024, the parliament elected Shehbaz Sharif as the new prime minister for a second term.
In March 2025, China rolled over a $2 billion loan to Pakistan as part of efforts to stabilize the country's economy.
In March 2025, Defence Minister Khawaja Asif stated that Nawaz Sharif was prepared to assist in addressing the deteriorating situation in Balochistan.
In March 2025, Pakistan extended the deportation program to all documented Afghan migrants and ordered them to leave by 31 March.
In March, Richard Holbrooke, then US special envoy to Pakistan, said that US-Pakistani relations have seen "significant improvement" under Obama.
In May 1953, the US Secretary of State John Foster Dulles recommended India and Pakistan seek a bilateral solution.
In May 1960, the U-2 incident took place, in which pilot Gary Powers was captured by the USSR.
In May 1988, Zia dissolved the assemblies and called a November election.
In May 1990, she ordered the army to restore peace in Karachi and Hyderabad.
In May 1998, soon after Indian nuclear tests, Nawaz vowed that his country would make a suitable reply.
In May 1998, the PML-N government led by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif ordered six nuclear tests, in response to Indian nuclear tests.
In May 2006 they both signed a Charter of Democracy, a document calling for an end to military rule.
In May 2007, Pakistan Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Makhdum Khusro Bakhtyar made an official visit to Belarus and meet with high-ranking government officials of Belarus.
In May 2008, Asfandyar Wali Khan made an unannounced visit to the United States in which he and his delegate held high-level meetings with top U.S. officials.
In May 2010, Pakistan blocked access to Facebook because the website hosted a page called Everybody Draw Muhammad Day.
In May 2011, Pakistani journalist Saleem Shahzad was killed and in September, The New Yorker reported that the order to kill Shahzad came from an officer on General Kayani's staff.
In May 2012, President Asif Ali Zardari signed the National Commission for Human Rights Bill 2012 for the promotion of the protection of human rights in the country.
In May 2013, the state's main prosecutor in the Bhutto case, Zulfikar Ali, was himself assassinated in Islamabad.
In May 2014, IMF stated that inflation had dropped to 13% (compared to 25% in 2008), foreign reserves were in a better position and that the current account deficit had come down to 3% of GDP.
In May 2018, Interior Minister and PML-N senior leader Ahsan Iqbal was shot and wounded at a political rally in his home constituency of Narowal, in an apparent assassination attempt.
In May 2018, PTI announced a 100-day agenda for a government.
In May 2018, a new constitutional amendment was passed that allowed tribal people to access their rights.
In May 2023, he was arrested at the Islamabad High Court during a hearing related to the corruption charges; following the May 9 riots, he was released on protective bail a few days later.
In May 2025, Pakistan reportedly hired two lobbying firms with close ties to U.S. President Donald Trump for strengthening relations.
In May, Pakistan witnessed a staggering record inflation rate of 38 per cent compared to the same period the previous year.
In Nixon's words: "In the strongest possible...(...)... terms to restrain India with which ... (Soviets) have great influence and for whose actions you must share responsibility".
In November 1971, Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi met Nixon in Washington.
In November 1972, Bhutto advised Salam to travel to the United States to avoid the war and encouraged him to return with key literature on nuclear weapons history.
In November 1985, the 8th Constitutional Amendment was adopted by the Parliament.
In November 1999, Khan condemned the UN for failing to halt Russian "atrocities" in Chechnya.
In November 2009, Pakistani authorities charged seven men they had arrested earlier, of planning and executing the assault.
In November 2010, the two states formed a joint chamber of commerce to expand trade relations and solve the problems traders face.
In November 2011, Pakistani cable television operators blocked the BBC World News TV channel after it broadcast a documentary, entitled Secret Pakistan.
In November 2013, Nawaz broke ground on a US$9.59 billion nuclear power complex in Karachi, designed to produce 2200 MW of electricity.
In November 2016, Pakistan also decided to grant Russia access to the Gwadar Port, a warm water sea port as has done to both Iran and Turkmenistan.
In November 2016, the government announced that Renault was expected to start assembling cars in Pakistan by 2018.
In November 2017, a transgender woman was gunned down in Peshawar.
In November 2019, Pakistan decided to solve a Soviet-era trade dispute with Russia, in which the Pakistani government should pay $93.5 million to Russia within 90 days.
In November 2019, Pakistan was one of 54 countries that signed a joint statement supporting China's Xinjiang policies.
In November 2020, the Foreign Office of Pakistan made public a dossier allegedly containing 'irrefutable proofs' of Indian sponsorship of terrorism in Pakistan.
In November of 2023 a Pakistani court overturned Sharif's conviction, and he considered rejoining the political realm.
In November, he survived an assassination attempt.
In October 1951, Jammu & Kashmir National Conference under the leadership of Sheikh Abdullah formed the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir to formulate the Constitution of the state.
In October 1958 President Iskandar Mirza issued orders for a massive mobilisation of the Pakistan Armed Forces and appointed Chief of Army Staff General Ayub Khan as Commander-in-chief.
In October 1965, as the foreign minister, Bhutto visited Vienna, where nuclear engineer Munir Ahmad Khan held a senior technical post at the IAEA.
In October 1966, Bhutto explicitly outlined the beliefs of his new party: "Islam is our faith, democracy is our policy, socialism is our economy.
In October 1990, the FSC ruled that § 295-C was repugnant to Islam by permitting life imprisonment as an alternative to a death sentence.
In October 1998, Radio Pakistan started its first FM transmission.
In October 1998, Ziauddin Butt was chosen as director general.
In October 1998, three months before the end of his term, Karamat was forced to resign.
In October 1999, General Musharraf paid an official visit to Sri Lanka on an invitation of Sri Lankan Army Commander Lieutenant-General Srilal Weerasooriya.
In October 1999, the chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Pervez Musharraf, launched a military coup which ousted Sharif from power.
In October 2002, Pakistan held general elections, which the pro-Musharraf PML-Q won wide margins, although it had failed to gain an absolute majority.
In October 2005, Condoleezza Rice made a statement where she promised that the United States will support the country's earthquake relief efforts and help it rebuild" after the Kashmir earthquake.
In October 2007, Musharraf was elected president by Pakistan's parliament.
In October 2008, President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan called the Kashmir separatists "terrorists" in an interview with The Wall Street Journal.
In October 2009 four television news channels were blocked for several hours in the wake of a terrorist attack on the army headquarters in October 2009.
In October 2009, PEMRA directed 15 FM radio stations to stop carrying British Broadcasting Corporation programs for "violation of the terms and conditions of their license".
In October 2009, the US Congress approved $7.5 billion of non-military aid to Pakistan over the next five years via the Kerry-Lugar Bill.
In October 2010, the landmark APTTA agreement was signed by Pakistani Commerce Minister Makhdoom Amin Fahim and Anwar ul-Haq Ahady, Afghan Ministry of Commerce.
In October 2014, 20 civilians were killed and thousands forced to flee their homes when Pakistani and Indian security forces began shelling in Kashmir, each side blaming the other for the incident.
In October 2015, the partners signed an Intergovernmental Agreement on constructing the north–south gas pipeline from Karachi to Lahore.
In October 2017, the Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz, or PML-N) government controversially changed the language in its 2017 elections bill.
In October 2019, the People National Alliance organised a rally to free Kashmir from Pakistani rule.
In October 2022, Faisal Vawda's party membership was terminated over his contentious press conference.
In October 2022, the Election Commission of Pakistan barred him for one term from the National Assembly over the Toshakhana case.
In October 2024, authorities said he undergoes a medical examination every two weeks and no health issues have been observed.
In October 2025, TLP organized protests outside the US Embassy in Islamabad in solidarity with the Palestinians.
In October 2025, Trump claimed that Pakistan, among other countries, had been secretly testing nuclear weapons.
In October, Zardari was arrested on charges of extortion.
In Pakistan Army, the careers are not restricted to military officials but are extended to civilian personnel and contractors who can progress in administrative branches of the army.
In Pakistan, 1.5% of the population are Christian.
In Pakistan, 6 September is celebrated as Defence Day to remember how Lahore was able to defend itself against the Indian army.
In Pakistan, Deobandis have a presence in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), Sindh, and Balochistan.
In Pakistan, Hindu and Christian girls are kidnapped, raped, forcibly converted to Islam and married to Muslim men.
In Pakistan, Khan is regarded as Jinnah's "right hand man" and heir apparent.
In Pakistan, Maulana Noorani was remembered as a mystic religious leader and had preached spiritual aspects of Islam all over the world as part of the World Islamic Mission.
In Pakistan, abortion and infanticide is illegal and so is adultery.
In Pakistan, handmade embroidery is not only a cherished cultural tradition but also a testament to the remarkable craftsmanship of women across the country.
In Pakistan, many documentaries, stage and television dramas have been produced to enlighten Liaqat Ali Khan's struggle.
In Pakistan, the air force and army are honored on Defence Day and Air Force Day.
In Pakistan, the women's access to property, education, employment etc.
In Pakistan’s most populous province, Punjab, PTI has served as the largest opposition party twice and the ruling majority party once.
In Peshawar, the building of Radio Pakistan was set on fire by the protesters, who also shouted slogans against the army and military officials.
In Punjab and Kashmir, around 700,000 people lost their savings, and it was discovered that billions of rupees had been granted to the Ittefaq Group of Industries – Nawaz's steel mill.
In Reconciliation she proposed that Western countries finance a new "Marshall Plan" to aid the poor in Muslim-majority countries, believing that this would improve Islamic attitudes toward the West.
In Saudi Arabia, among the important personalities who were influenced by Iqbal there was Abdullah bin Faisal Al Saud, a member of the Saudi royal family and himself a poet.
In September 1923, Jinnah was elected as Muslim member for Bombay in the new Central Legislative Assembly.
In September 1944, Jinnah hosted Gandhi, recently released from confinement, at his home on Malabar Hill in Bombay.
In September 1947, he started a campaign to drive many Afghan Mujahideen sent by Pakistan, for the sole purpose of destabilization, out of Kashmir.
In September 1974, under pressure from religious organizations, the People's Party agreed on drafting and passing the constitutional amendment declaring the Ahmadiyya community to be non-Muslim.
In September 1981, the first conviction and sentence under the Zina Ordinance, of stoning to death for Fehmida and Allah Bakhsh were set aside under national and international pressure.
In September 1981, women came together in Karachi in an emergency meeting to oppose the adverse effects on women of martial law and the Islamization campaign.
In September 1987, Musharraf commanded an assault at Bilafond La before being pushed back.
In September 1996, the Taliban secured power in Afghanistan.
In September 1997, the talks broke down over the structure of how to deal with the issues of Kashmir, and peace and security.
In September 1999, General Musharraf forcefully retired Lieutenant-General Tariq Pervez who was known to be close to Sharif and cousin of Raja Nadir Pervez, the Communications Minister.
In September 1999, General Musharraf had sent a message to Prime Minister Sharif that "anyone in the Navy and Air Force can become the Chairman Joint Chiefs as I did not care.
In September 2008, Zardari was elected President of Pakistan by the country's electoral college; he remained in that position until 2013.
In September 2013, Nawaz announced that Pakistan would open unconditional talks with the Taliban, declaring them stakeholders rather than terrorists.
In September 2018, Khan launched the Plant for Pakistan programme.
In September 2018, the countries signed a Memorandum of Understanding to conduct a feasibility study for the construction of an offshore gas pipeline.
In September 2019, Khan, along with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, announced an English-language TV channel to address Islamophobia.
In September 2019, during a joint rally at Houston, Trump refused to endorse India's repeated allegations against Pakistan.
In September 2024, Amnesty International said it had "noted a pattern of weaponisation of the legal system to keep him detained and away from political activity" and called for his immediate release.
In September 2025, Pakistan, along with fifteen other countries, issued a joint statement supporting the Global Sumud Flotilla to Gaza and warning against any unlawful actions targeting it.
In September, Zulfikar was re-arrested and charged with the 1974 murder of Muhammad Ahmed Khan Kasuri, the father of Ahmed Raza Kasuri, a vocal critic of Zulfikar's government.
In Sindh province, the appointments are made on the backdrop of a test conducted by National testing service (NTS) which is primarily based on English language and General knowledge.
In Sindhi, they are referred to as khadra (کدڙا).
In Urdu the title is Sab Se Pehle Pakistan (Pakistan Comes First) and in Hindi it is Agnipath Meri Atmakatha (Path of Fire My Life Story).
In West Pakistan, the Muslim League failed to compete against the socialists, and in East Pakistan the communists.
In West Pakistan, too, twelve hundred military deaths had accompanied lackluster military performance.
In a 'Letter to American People' written by Osama bin Laden in 2002, he stated that one of the reasons he was fighting America was because of its support for India on the Kashmir issue.
In a 1938 letter, he wrote to a supporter that "you must have read in the papers how during my tours ...
In a 1970 legal challenge, Hussain Ali Ganji Walji claimed Jinnah had converted to Sunni Islam.
In a 2002 interview with The Guardian, Bhutto described her allegiance to the Sufi branch of Sunni Islam.
In a 2006 interview, Peter Lloyd described his transformation as a "playboy to puritan U-turn," leaving many scratching their heads in wonder.
In a 2007 article for the Los Angeles Times, Bhutto's niece, Fatima Bhutto, called her "a puppet 'democrat'" linked to the U.S. government's neoconservative agenda.
In a 2007 interview, Bhutto said that she and her husband were living apart because of his medical requirements, adding that she visited him every month in New York.
In a 2011 Financial Times interview, Khan said he bought a penthouse in South Kensington in 1983 for £110,000 and sold it in 2003 to buy land in Islamabad.
In a 2011 survey, TI Pakistan identified the judiciary as the most corrupt institution in Pakistan alongside the police.
In a 2022 Gallup Pakistan poll, 48% of respondents had a negative view of his performance, while 36% held a favourable opinion.
In a 2022 speech, Khan referenced a clip of Maryam Nawaz repeatedly mentioning him.
In a 2025 book, author Dinkar Prakash Srivastava wrote that Khan enjoyed military patronage and "colluded" with it against Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif.
In a July interview with The Sunday Times from prison, he said he is held in a small "death cell" usually "reserved for terrorists".
In a March 2007 interview, Musharraf said that he intended to stay in office for another five years.
In a departure from the norm the final report was published and made publicly available.
In a historic 2009 ruling, the Supreme Court of Pakistan ruled in favour of civil rights for transgender citizens, and further court rulings upheld and increased these rights.
In a journal article on Pakistan's first governor-general, historian R. J. Moore wrote that Jinnah is universally recognised as central to the creation of Pakistan.
In a landmark 2025 judgment, the Supreme Court of Pakistan ruled against the Federal Board of Revenue (FBR), emphasising that tax recovery must uphold the dignity and legal rights of citizens.
In a later interview his justification for calling off the march was to avoid bloodshed, as he alleged that his supporters were ready to fight against the police.
In a major development all of the infrastructure and bureaucracy of the capital was relocated from Karachi to Islamabad.
In a matter of weeks, Ramzi was secretly extradited to the United States, while the ISI managed to kill or apprehend all the culprits behind the plot.
In a media conference the spokesman for the United States State Department, John Kirby, stated that US was aware of the arrests of the MQM leaders and was closely monitoring the events.
In a meeting, both Mujib and Bhutto agreed upon a coalition government as Bhutto would assumed the Presidency and Mujib as Premier.
In a nationally televised address, General Zia announced that the National Assembly of Pakistan and all provincial assemblies were dissolved, and that the Constitution of Pakistan was suspended.
In a pattern that would be repeated throughout Pakistan's electoral history, many of those who lost accused the winners of cheating and rigging the elections.
In a press conference held shortly after India's nuclear test, Bhutto said, "India's nuclear program is designed to intimidate Pakistan and establish "hegemony in the subcontinent".
In a press conference on 19 February, Nawaz called for President Pervez Musharraf to step down.
In a press conference, Jalloud revealed that Gaddafi had proposed to exile Bhutto to Libya, and the Presidential aircraft awaited Bhutto at the Islamabad International Airport.
In a press conference, the ambassador of Russia has agreed to sell helicopters to Pakistan to assist the country with terrorism and security related issues.
In a report published by the Defence Ministry, It said that the incidents of terrorism in Pakistan had seen an increase in 2023 compared to 2018 and 2021 after the US withdrawal from Afghanistan.
In a separate case the police aided in a bride's abduction.
In a sign of widening fissures between the two allies, on January 21, Pakistan declined a request by the United States to launch new offensives on militants in 2010.
In a significant development, the Supreme Court transferred the decision on the legal status of Bhutto's execution to a larger bench yet to be formed.
In a speech before a crowd estimated at 300,000, Jinnah stated (in English) that Urdu alone should be the national language, believing a single language was needed for a nation to remain united.
In a speech given at Allahabad to a League session in 1930, Sir Muhammad Iqbal called for a state for Muslims in British India.
In a speech in 1940, two years after the death of Iqbal, Jinnah expressed his preference for implementing Iqbal's vision for an Islamic Pakistan even if it meant he himself would never lead a nation.
In a speedy trial, the military court convicted Nawaz and gave him a life sentence.
In a study carried out by Gallup Pakistan, the Pakistani affiliate of Gallup International, majority of the Pakistanis believe that both males and females have different roles to play in the society.
In a survey by Pew, 74% of Pakistanis believed that U.S. drone strikes killed too many innocent civilians.
In a televised media, the People's Party under Bhutto vowed to build a new Pakistan.
In a televised speech on 16 March, Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gilani promised to reinstate Chaudhry after receiving pressure from Pakistan's army, American and British envoys, and internal protests.
In a television address to the nation, President Khan announced his intention to hold nationwide elections the following year and to transfer power to the elected representatives.
In a television interview given in 2001, Musharraf openly spoke about the negative role of a few high-ranking officers in the Pakistan Armed Forces in state's affairs.
In a thesis written by historian Abdul Ghafoor Buhgari, Carter is accused of having sabotaged Bhutto's credibility.
In a views of historian, Mazhar Aziz, the military coup d'état is seen as an "striking example in the case study of civil military relations" in a post–Cold War era.
In a vote of confidence in January 2004, Musharraf won 658 out of 1,170 votes in the electoral college, and was elected president.
In accordance with the Constitution of Pakistan, Pakistani citizens can voluntarily enlist in military service as early as age 17, but cannot be deployed for combat until age 18.
In addition to foreign owned companies, Such as the British Attock Petroleum Company and American owned Esso Fertilizers.
In addition to the expected exchange of small arms and artillery fire, India reported that Pakistan used the ceasefire to capture the Indian village of Chananwalla in the Fazilka sector.
In addition to the general seats, there are reserved seats for women in the Zila Council, which are proportionately divided among Tehsils or Towns.
In addition to the massive refugee problem, the new government sought to save abandoned crops, establish security in a chaotic situation, and provide basic services.
In addition to the national and provincial assemblies, Pakistan has over five thousand elected local governments.
In addition to the national parliament and the provincial assemblies, Pakistan also has more than five thousand elected local governments.
In addition to these 300 seats, five seats were reserved for women for each of the two wings, for a period of ten years: thus bringing the total membership of the house to 310.
In addition to these three countries, an unidentified Middle Eastern ally also supplied Pakistan with Mirage IIIs.
In addition to this was the unofficial Kargil War and some border skirmishes.
In addition to this was the unofficial Kargil War in 1999 and some border skirmishes.
In addition to this, certain amendments which pertain to the federal nature of the Constitution must be ratified by a majority of provincial legislatures.
In addition, Yahya also inherited the challenge of transforming a country essentially ruled by one man into a democratic country, which was the ideological basis of the anti-Ayub movement of 1968–69.
In addition, an Intergovernmental Agreement on Cooperation in Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) was signed on October 13, 2017.
In addition, media is also exposed to propaganda from state agencies, pressured by powerful political elements and non-state actors involved in the current conflict.
In addition, media is also threatened by non-state actors involved in the current conflict.
In addition, on 19 April, army chief General Raheel Sharif warned that across-the-board accountability was needed.
In addition, the Constitution allows the president to grant pardons, reprieves, and clemency in cases recommended to him by the executive and the judiciary.
In addition, the Court's judgement confirmed the legitimacy of a third gender for intersex persons under Islamic law.
In addition, the Pakistani Constitution reserves 10 seats for religious minorities and 60 seats for women, to be filled by proportional representation among parties with more than 5% of the vote.
In addition, the United Jihad Council, an umbrella organisation of pro-Pakistani Kashmiri separatists rejected Pakistan's plan for a climb-down, instead deciding to fight on.
In addition, the governor-general would initially be a powerful figure, and Jinnah did not trust anyone else to take that office.
In addition, there is a growing number of individuals—generally from more affluent and educated families—who are coming out to their friends and introducing them to their same-sex partner.
In addition, there were 4 additional regiments termed "tank delivery units" (TDUs), i.e.
In addition, there were religious and racial tensions between Bengalis and the multi-ethnic West Pakistanis, as Bengalis looked different from the dominant West Pakistanis.
In addition, women of lower classes are more prone to being victims of honour killings or rape.
In agreeing to have the League join the government, Jinnah abandoned his demands for parity with the Congress and a veto on matters concerning Muslims.
In an April 2002 referendum, Musharraf extended his presidential mandate for a further five years.
In an assessment completed by the United States, India was seen as being able to summarily defeat Pakistan, were India to receive the full backing of Soviet Union.
In an attempt to defuse the situation, both countries signed the Lahore Declaration in February 1999, promising to provide a peaceful and bilateral solution to the Kashmir conflict.
In an editorial written by Daily Jang, the media summed up that "his name will remain shining forever on the horizon of Pakistan".
In an effort to meet the demands of Islamists Bhutto banned the drinking and selling of wine by Muslims, nightclubs and horse racing.
In an indirect election, Tarar received heavy votes from the electors of Electoral College, becoming the first president from the PML (N).
In an indirect election, the winner is determined by votes cast by the electors of the Electoral College.
In an indirect elections, the electors of the Awami League voted for Mirza's bid for presidency in 1956.
In an indirect party election, Shahbaz Sharif was elected as the party's new president, and the party's leadership shifted its base to London, England.
In an interview with Dawn, President Mirza regretted his decision saying: "I did not mean to do it" while offering assurances that martial law would be for the shortest possible duration.
In an interview with Dawn, political analyst Dr. Rasul Bakhsh Rais described the Shehbaz Sharif administration as the third iteration of a "hybrid regime" following the ouster of Imran Khan.
In an interview with The Guardian, she described the nomination as "very ill-conceived" and argued that it should be rescinded.
In an unprecedented act, the judicial proceedings are now televised in order to show the country how the superior court of the land works.
In an unsuccessful attempt to dismiss the Judicial system, Musharraf dramatically fall from power.
In an unsuccessful attempt, six terrorists belonging to Lashkar-e-Toiba, stormed the Ayodhya Ram Janmbhomi complex on 5 July 2005.
In announcing the coup, Zia promised "free and fair elections" within 90 days.
In areas of militant activity the security forces use rape to destroy morale of Kashmiri resistance.
In bilateral talks held in Delhi in August 1953, he proposed that a plebiscite administrator be appointed within six months.
In both Pakistan and the Arab world, Pakistan's swift, unconditional, and forthright offer of assistance to the Arab states was deeply appreciated.
In both these instances, the Pakistani military was left with no options to reciprocate because its electronic media were inferior to that of the Indian media.
In case emergency is proclaimed, the Parliament holds the authority to extend the term of the National Assembly.
In case of complaint of interference in water supply by any province the Council would look into the complaint.
In civil jurisdiction these courts entertain the matters under Succession Act, Insolvency Act, suits for government, summary suits pertaining to negotiable instruments etc.
In combat the Starfighter was not as effective as the IAF's far more agile, albeit much slower, Folland Gnat fighter.
In comparison, 92.5% are selected by a quota system.
In conclusion, both Nawaz Sharif and Benazir Bhutto refused to make compromises with respect to the country's nuclear deterrence, instead building infrastructure despite U.S. objections.
In contrast to Maulana Samiul Haq and his JUI-S openly supporting militarism, the JUI (F) has a policy of not supporting militant activity and of promoting multi-party electoral politics.
In contrast to the constitutions of India and Bangladesh, the Constitution reflected a heavy compromise over several issues to maintain a delicate balance of power among the country's institutions.
In contrast to those Islamic clerics who insisted that her involvement in politics contrasted with Islamic values, she insisted that there was no conflict.
In contrast, both proved adept with smaller forces in a defensive role, such as India's 2nd Armoured Brigade at Asal Uttar and Pakistan's 25th Cavalry at Chawinda.
In contrast, the Indian Army's armor had outdated in technology with Korean war-usage American M4 Sherman and World War II manufactured British Centurion Tank, fitted with the French-made CN-75 guns.
In contrast, with future Pakistani military rulers such as Gen. Zia-ul-Haq and Gen. Pervez Musharraf, Ayub Khan did not seek to hold the posts of president and army chief simultaneously.
In conversation, she often used the phrase "inshallah", and insisted that the Quran supported the equality of the sexes.
In direct elections, a candidate who obtains the highest number of votes in a constituency, is declared elected as a member of the National Assembly or a provincial assembly.
In doing so, Bhutto's government began the politicisation of economic planning.
In doing so, it will also take into account other factors.
In due course, the Muslim Conference started aligning itself ideologically with the All-India Muslim League, and supported its call for an independent 'Pakistan'.
In each of these periods, the military junta led by the president had the powers of the prime minister.
In early 1949, an agitation was started by Jammu Praja Parishad, a Hindu nationalist party which was active in the Jammu region, over the ruling National Conference's policies.
In early 1976 Bhutto's socialist alliance collapsed, forcing his left-wing allies to form an alliance with right-wing conservatives and Islamists to challenge the power of the PPP.
In early 1977, Bhutto decided to use the ISI to provide credible intelligence on the Iraqi nuclear program that Pakistan and the ISI had secretly gained.
In early 1988, the case of Shahida Parveen and Muhammad Sarwar sparked bitter public criticism.
In early 1989, the PPP government attempted to unseat Nawaz through a no-confidence motion in the Punjab Assembly, which they lost by a vote of 152 to 106.
In early 2019 the word transgender appeared for the first time in the Urdu language, translated as مُتَجَنَّس (mutajannis) by the Lahore-based organisation, HOPE - Have Only Positive Expectations.
In early 2023 numerous people were arrested for engaging in homosexual pornography.
In early March 1971, approximately 300 Biharis were slaughtered in riots by Bengali mobs in Chittagong alone.
In early November, he released details of his assets to the public.
In elections held in 2013, the PML (N) won 166 seats in the National Assembly and formed the government.
In every province, there is one High Court.
In every town and city, there are numerous civil and judicial magistrates' courts.
In exercises of its constitutional role, the Parliament also has other very important duties to perform.
In fact, more than 80 percent of the Bengali people were Muslims at that time.
In fact, the army had used less than 15% of its ammunition compared to Pakistan, which had consumed closer to 80 percent and India had double the number of serviceable tanks.
In foreign policy, the party supports liberal internationalism while advocating for stronger ties with the United Kingdom, China, and Russia.
In governance, PTI tried to move with religious ulema (clergy) to end discrimination against female education.
In her own worlds, Benazir Bhutto announced: "There was no basis for [strikes] ... in view of the ongoing political process".
In her second term, she oversaw economic privatisation and attempts to advance women's rights.
In her view, "it was men's interpretation of our religion that restricted women's opportunities, not our religion itself.
In her widely discredited book Dead Reckoning: Memories of the 1971 Bangladesh War, Sarmila Bose said between 50,000 and 100,000 combatants and civilians were killed by both sides during the war.
In hindsight, nationalisation resulted in significant losses to both the national treasury and the people of Pakistan.
In his 2016 book, The Rise and Fall of Nations, Ruchir Sharma stated that Pakistan's economy was at a 'take-off' stage and the future outlook to 2020 was 'very good'.
In his Rumuz-i-Bekhudi رموزِ بیخودی (Hints of Selflessness), Iqbal seeks to prove the Islamic way of life is the best code of conduct for a nation's viability.
In his absence, Senate Chairman Sadiq Sanjrani administered the oath of office to the new prime minister.
In his absence, the chairman of Senate exercises the responsibilities of the post, until the actual president resumes office, or the next office holder is elected.
In his autobiography In the Line of Fire: A Memoir, Musharraf elaborates on his first experience with death, after falling off a mango tree.
In his bachelorhood, he had several relationships and was associated with London's nightlife.
In his book Mainsprings of Indian and Pakistani foreign policies, S.M.
In his book Patel: A Life, Rajmohan Gandhi asserts that Jinnah hoped for a plebiscite in Junagadh, knowing Pakistan would lose, in the hope the principle would be established for Kashmir.
In his final speech before being hanged, Bhutto's last words were: "Oh Lord, help me for...
In his final years, he frequently visited the Dargah of famous Sufi Ali Hujwiri in Lahore for spiritual guidance.
In his first visit to Afghanistan, he presented Payam-e Mashreq to King Amanullah Khan.
In his last months, Jinnah came to believe that his Prime Minister Khan was a weak prime minister—highly ambitious—and not loyal to Jinnah and his vision in his dying days.
In his later years he was usually seen wearing a Karakul hat which subsequently came to be known as the "Jinnah cap".
In his place, Brig O. P. Nandrajog took command of the brigade.
In his speech Carter had indirectly announced his opposition to Bhutto, his ambitions, and the elections.
In his view, any longer would mean civil war.
In it, he admired the uprising of Afghanistan against the British Empire.
In judging Jinnah, we must remember what he was up against.
In keeping with the agreement made by Bhutto and Musharraf, the PPP representatives abstained rather than voting against Musharraf's nomination.
In late 1994, he joined former ISI chief Hamid Gul and Muhammad Ali Durrani of Pasban, a breakaway of Jamaat-e-Islami, to launch a "pressure group" as a civil society watchdog.
In late 1996, the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan emerged and established close relations with neighbouring Pakistan.
In late 2005, when Pakistan and Israel began discussions, Al Jazeera reported that Sharif had said he had no objections with Pakistan establishing relations with Israel.
In late 2006, the Pakistani parliament passed the Women's Protection Bill, repealing some of the Hudood Ordinances.
In late 2010 Pakistanis enjoyed generally unimpeded access to most sexual, political, social, and religious content on the Internet.
In late 2013, the Government of Pakistan censored the website Queerpk.com from being viewed.
In late April 2023, the Chinese defence minister Li Shangfu facilitated a meeting by Pakistan army chief General Syed Asim Munir in Beijing.
In late August 1998, Nawaz proposed a law to establish a legal system based on Islamic principles.
In late December 1999, Musharraf dealt with his first international crisis when India accused Pakistan's involvement in the Indian Airlines Flight 814 hijacking.
In later life, she increasingly came to see success through the prism of her family.
In less than two years, Mirza dismissed four elected prime ministers, and was increasingly under pressure to call new elections in 1958.
In light of the Pakistani atrocities against Bengalis, the United Kingdom and France abstained on the resolution.
In light of the failures of the Sino-Indian War, the outcome of the 1965 war was viewed as a "politico-strategic" victory for India.
In magisterial functions judicial magistrates record statements on oath of witness, Judicial confession of accused, holds identification test parades, inquest proceedings of the prisoners.
In many cases these channels were shifted to obscure numbers in channel line-up.
In memory of the deaths, UNESCO declared 21 February International Mother Language Day in November 1999.
In mid-1999, alleged insurgents and Pakistani soldiers from Pakistani Kashmir infiltrated Jammu and Kashmir.
In mid-February 2010, after the capture of the second most powerful Taliban, Abdul Ghani Baradar in Pakistan by Pakistani forces, the White House hailed the operation.
In military awards hierarchy, the Nishan-e-Haidar (lit.
In modern times, Pakistan's first embassy in Athens was opened in 1975.
In most South Asian nations, there is a concept of third gender where members are referred to by society as neither man nor a woman.
In most of these constituencies, the number of votes received was in the hundreds.
In most rural villages, secondary schooling simply does not exist for girls, leaving them no choice but to prepare for marriage and do household tasks.
In my opinion, if we have to repeat of past events then we must understand that Military leaders can pressure only up to a point.
In my opinion, the war ended in a kind of stalemate.
In news speculation, it was also said by religious leaders that homosexuals cannot be "Pakistani" or "Muslim".
In one 2023 case, a job seeker was contacted by a woman in a messaging group who sent him an inappropriate image containing religious text and asked him to forward it.
In one speech, she incited Kashmiri Muslims to rise up against their administration.
In order to break the constitutional deadlock, Nehru invited the National Conference to send a delegation to Delhi.
In order to cope, some women enter religious communities or religious events to avoid being home and further altercations.
In order to improve this situation, governmental organizations and political parties need to push for the entrance of women into the organized services sector.
In order to marry off a son, one must also have a daughter to marry off in return.
In other provinces civil judges have jurisdiction to entertain first- and second-class suits.
In part, this inspired Shekhar Gupta to coin the protologism, "war of mutual incompetence".
In partnerships, foreign involvement cannot exceed 25 percent.
In practice awarded by Constitution, judges of the supreme court have been selected so far, mostly from amongst judges of the high courts.
In practice, these rules and regulations are not enforced.
In principle, the failure to find such proof of rape does not place the woman herself at risk of prosecution.
In protest of alleged election rigging, the PTI's lawmakers announced their resignation from the National Assembly, and the Punjab and Sindh assemblies.
In protest over its establishment, the professional journalists organisations refrained from nominating their four members to the council.
In provincial assemblies, 128 seats were reserved for women.
In reality, both sides have committed widespread and numerous human rights abuses and violations of international humanitarian law (or the laws of war).
In recent years this relationship has strengthened through ongoing military projects and agreements between Pakistan and China.
In recent years ties between Russia and Pakistan have warmed as a countermeasure to warming ties between India and the United States.
In recent years, government institutions, private organizations, and international partners have launched various initiatives to encourage women's participation in STEM fields in Pakistan.
In recent years, links have grown closer.
In recognition of the Northern Light Infantry's performance in the war, which even drew praise from a retired Indian Lt. General, the regiment was incorporated into the regular army.
In response Bhutto aggressively campaigned for efforts to speed up the atomic project.
In response to the 2001 Gujarat earthquake, Pakistani President Pervez Mushrraf sent a plane load of relief supplies from Islamabad to Ahmedabad.
In response to the following statement "If jobs are in shortage should men be given priority for employment"; 72% of the respondents believe they should be given priority while 28% disagree.
In response to the price hike and the ensuing inflation, TLP had called for what was known as the "shutter-down strike" on 27 February 2023.
In response, India broadened the war by launching an attack on Pakistani Punjab across the international border.
In response, Nawaz addressed the nation, stating that those "fanning the fire of hatred" would be dealt with under the law.
In response, at the World Islamic Congress in Hejaz, Imam Du openly confronted fake Muslim Japanese agents and exposed them as non-Muslims.
In response, she gave up her role as Minister of Finances and dismissed most of her economic advisers in October 1996.
In response, the British Parliament imposed immigration controls on any Commonwealth citizens originating from outside the British Islands with the Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1962.
In response, the Council of Islamic Ideology criticised Nawaz's move claiming that "changing the department's name would not set the right precedent.
In response, the Nawab of Junagarh militarily occupied the two states.
In response, the Peoples Party decided to hold its national conference that was held in Hala, Sindh between 1–3 July 1970.
In response, the Sharif government placed a citywide ban on gatherings and arrested hundreds of opposition activists.
In response, the voting age was lowered from 21 to 18 and the number of polling stations significantly increased, whilst ID cards were not required for people to cast a vote.
In retaliation 12 Indian fighter jets dropped bombs on a "terrorist camp" in Pakistan-controlled territory of Kashmir, allegedly killing around 350 members in terrorist camps.
In retaliation the Afghan secret police carried out a large number of terrorist operations against Pakistan, which also suffered from an influx of illegal weapons and drugs from Afghanistan.
In retaliation, Pakistan announced a series of countermeasures.
In retrospect, her best and worst qualities seem so intimately linked that the course of her career might almost have been predicted.
In return General Zia dismissed the Junejo government on several charges in May 1988 and called for elections in November 1988.
In return for their support, Pakistan had sanctions lifted and has received about $10 billion in U.S. aid since 2001, primarily military.
In rural areas only women wear burqas or shawls are from landlord/elite families.
In rural areas, girls' schools are far away from their homes; many families cannot afford travel expenses for their children.
In short, India required an asymmetric treatment of the two countries in the withdrawal arrangements, regarding Pakistan as an 'aggressor', whereas Pakistan insisted on parity.
In some cases the female athletes who register the cases of sexual abuse and harassment are banned or put on probation.
In some parts of Sindh, the practice of marrying a woman to the Quran is prevalent among landlords; it requires that the woman live without a husband throughout her life.
In some regions, women are severely bound by cultural constraints and prejudices, as they are often involved in domestic work for over 14 hours per day.
In spite of hailing from Bengal, his military career was mostly spent in the violent North-West Frontier Province of India, participating in the Waziristan war in 1920.
In spite of its limited mandate, Nurul Amin became the prime minister and vice-president of Pakistan – the only figure to have been appointed as vice-president.
In spite of the magnitude of the victory, India was surprisingly restrained in its reaction.
In spite of this rocky relationship, the United States has stated that it remains committed to assisting Pakistan's new democratic government in the areas of development, stability, and security.
In successive years, the Supreme Court was moved to Lahore High Court until the Supreme Court was permanently moved into its new building constructed in Islamabad in 1964.
In such a case, candidate can press into service Constitutional jurisdiction of the High Court.
In tennis, Rohan Bopanna of India and Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi of Pakistan have formed a successful duo and have been dubbed as the "Indo-Pak Express".
In terms of its political base, it was both weak and narrow, and could not compete in West-Pakistan as well as in East-Pakistan where traditional families were endowed with enormous political power.
In the 'golden days' of Pakistani cinema, the film industry churned out more than 200 films annually, today it's one-fifth of what it used to be.
In the 1940s–1960s, India's nuclear program slowly matured towards militarisation and expanded the nuclear power infrastructure throughout the country.
In the 1960s Pakistan received 700 million dollars of military aid from the United States, by signing a defence agreement in 1954, which significantly modernised Pakistan's military equipment.
In the 1960s, Iqbal's thesis on Persian philosophy was translated from English to Persian.
In the 1960s, the problems over the Durand Line escalated with Afghanistan which led to open hostilities in the 1970s.
In the 1965 war, the Pakistan Army had only one corps headquarters (the 1 Corps).
In the 1970s and 1980s, Khan attracted media attention for his physical appearance.
In the 1980s, Pakistan agreed to pay $658 million for 28 F-16 fighter jets from the United States; however, the US congress froze the deal, citing objections to Pakistan's nuclear ambitions.
In the 1980s, ethnic violence had broken out in Sindh province, with most of those killed being mohajirs.
In the 1980s, he sported a "playboy" image in the British press for his exploits on the London party circuit, though he said he never consumed liquor.
In the 1990 general election, the PPP only secured 45 of the 217 seats.
In the 1990s, Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif proposed a bill to amend the 1973 constitution to allow a Member to serve a third term as prime minister.
In the 1990s, U.S. and the Missile Technology Control Regime put restrictions on Pakistan's space program in amid fear that the country's alleged covert development of missile programs.
In the 1993 national elections, the party won three seats in the National Assembly.
In the 1997 parliamentary elections, Nawaz and the PML-N won an overwhelming victory, with an exclusive mandate from across Pakistan.
In the 19th century, when the Sikh Empire was conquering Kashmir, his grandfather's family migrated to Punjab.
In the 2002 elections, the party struck up an alliance with the PPP.
In the 2008 elections, MQM won 25 seats in the National Assembly of Pakistan and 52 seats in the Provincial Assembly of Sindh.
In the 2008 general election, the party won urban votes and dominated the provisional assembly of Punjab Province.
In the 2008 parliamentary elections, the ANP dominated the far-right wing coalition, the MMA, a party formed by a coalition of Islamic movements in 2002.
In the 2010, TI Pakistan reported that about 23.7% of those surveyed received admission in educational institutions through non-normal and alternate procedures.
In the 2013 general election, the PTI emerged as a major party with over 7.5 million votes, ranking second by number of votes and third by number of seats won.
In the 2018 Pakistani general election, PTI launched a countrywide populist and anti-corruption campaign.
In the 2018 election, Imran Khan promises to bring a "Naya Pakistan" (new Pakistan).
In the 2018 general election, it received 16.9 million votes—the largest amount for any political party in Pakistan thus far.
In the 2021 Indian film 83, about the 1983 Cricket World Cup, he is portrayed by actor Chunky Panday.
In the 2021 Indian film Shershaah, about the Kargil War, he is portrayed by actor Bobby Khanna.
In the 2024 Khyber Pakhtunkhwa provincial election, Independent candidates allied with PTI won 86 seats.
In the 2024 Men's Asian Champions Trophy final, the Pakistani players who were spectating the match supported China against India despite having lost to them in the semifinal.
In the 2024 Punjab provincial election, Independent candidates allied with PTI won the second-most seats, though the party claims it won the first-most seats without rigging.
In the 2025 Indian film Dhurandhar he is portrayed by actor Mashhoor Amrohi.
In the 3rd National Assembly from 1962 to 1964, eight women were elected as MNAs, including six on reserved seats and two on general seats.
In the 5th National Assembly from 1972 to 1977, six women politicians were elected on reserved seats for women.
In the 7th National Assembly, twenty one women (21) were elected on reserved seats whereas two women were elected on general seats as MNAs for the term from 1985 to 1988.
In the 9th National Assembly for the term (1990-1993), Benazir Bhutto and Begum Nusrat Bhutto were the only two women members who were elected on general seats.
In the Afghan–Soviet War, it supported the Afghan mujahideen and played a vital role in the defeat of Soviet Forces and forced them to withdraw from Afghanistan.
In the Bogra administration, he also took care of the matters of the Commonwealth and Kashmir affairs ministry as he had gained major political influence in the administration in 1955.
In the Constituent Assembly elections of 1946, the Muslim League won 425 out of 496 seats reserved for Muslims, polling 89.2% of the total votes.
In the December 1945 elections for the Constituent Assembly of India, the League won every seat reserved for Muslims.
In the Freedom in the World 2025 report, Indian-administered Kashmir was categorized as "partly-free", while Pakistani-administered Kashmir was categorized as "not free".
In the Jammu region, the forces besieged in Poonch broke out and temporarily linked up with the outside world again.
In the June 2008 by-elections, Nawaz's party won 91 National Assembly seats and 180 provincial assembly seats in the Punjab.
In the Kashmir Valley the Indians attacked, recapturing Tithwail.
In the Kashmir Valley the tribal forces continued attacking the Uri garrison.
In the Kashmir valley, National Conference volunteers worked with the Indian Army to drive out the 'raiders'.
In the Kotli tehsil of the Mirpur district, border posts at Saligram and Owen Pattan on the Jhelum river were captured by rebels around 8 October.
In the November 2008 Mumbai Attacks, the United States informed Pakistan that it expected full cooperation in the hunt for the plotters of the attacks.
In the October 1993 general election, the PPP won the most seats, although it fell short of an outright majority, with 86 seats.
In the Pakistani context, these terms are used interchangeably.
In the Poonch valley, the state forces retreated into towns where they were besieged.
In the Poonch valley, tribal forces continued to besiege state forces.
In the US, the seven county Twin Cities (MN) regional system and Portland (OR) Metro are both the most integrated US examples; but, also those often cited in the US for what they have achieved.
In the United States, Indians and Pakistanis are classified under the South Asian American category and share many cultural traits, with intermarriage being common.
In the United States—a key ally of Zia's regime—Peter Galbraith helped rally support for Bhutto, including from the politicians Claiborne Pell and James Buckley.
In the Upper House, women sponsored 13% parliamentary business individually and 2% jointly with their male counterparts.
In the absence of rigging, commentators believe that the MUF could have won fifteen to twenty seats, a contention admitted by the National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah.
In the aftermath of Hakeem Saeed's assassination, federal rule was imposed by Nawaz Sharif in Sindh and an operation was initiated against MQM.
In the aftermath of India's major defeat in the Sino-Indian War, the United States shipped arms to India.
In the aftermath of the Babri Masjid demolition Pakistani Hindus faced riots.
In the aftermath of the Osama bin Laden raid, Pakistan Army canceled a $500 million training program and sent all 135 trainers home.
In the aftermath of the massacre, more demonstrations followed, and in January 1990, Indian paramilitary forces are believed to have killed around 300 protesters.
In the afternoon, she gave a speech at a PPP rally held in Rawalpindi's Liaquat National Bagh.
In the build-up to the election, there was a great sense of hope among liberal sectors of Pakistani society.
In the case of other bills, the president may prevent passage unless the legislature in joint sitting overrules the president by a majority of members of both houses present and voting.
In the country, she also wore a white dupatta on her head to placate Islamist opposition; her mother and other female family members had not covered their hair in this manner.
In the decade of his rule, the GNP rose by 45% and manufactured goods began to overtake such traditional exports as jute and cotton.
In the early 1990s, U.S. intelligence officials reported that Pakistan had secretly transferred American-made Stinger missiles to China.
In the early 1990s, the British media called him the Sexiest Man Alive.
In the early 2020s there were some 114 satellite TV channels in Pakistan, with most (42) concentrating on entertainment followed by news and current affairs (31).
In the early 21st century, as in the rest of the world, the number of print outlets in Pakistan declined precipitously, but total circulation numbers increased.
In the early days of independence, the fact that India was able to shut off the Central Bari Doab Canals at the time of the sowing season, causing significant damage to Pakistan's crops.
In the early morning, the system crashed.
In the early part of 1948, he was given the command of the 14th Infantry Division in the rank of acting major-general stationed in Dacca, East Pakistan.
In the early years of her career, however, she was nevertheless domestically popular and also attracted support from the international community, being seen as a champion of democracy.
In the elections of October 1990, MQM emerged as the third strongest party in the country.
In the end, by addressing his son Javed, he speaks to the young people at large, and guides the "new generation".
In the end, no withdrawal was ever carried out, India insisting that Pakistan had to withdraw first, and Pakistan contending that there was no guarantee that India would withdraw afterwards.
In the end, the decision to participate in the elections was taken.
In the ensuing election, which took place in February 1997, Sharif was re-elected.
In the event that the office of the President becomes vacant, the Chairman of the Senate acts as President till such time that the position may be filled through a by election.
In the event, Mountbatten stayed on as the Governor General of India, whereas Pakistan chose Jinnah as its Governor General.
In the face of this pressure, China backed down, extending the deadline for India to respond to its ultimatum and warning India against attacking East Pakistan.
In the fierce battle, heavy losses were incurred by the Indian side but by 24 November, a huge portion of Morapara was captured.
In the fierce competitive environment that followed commercial interests became paramount and quality journalism gave way to sensationalism.
In the film, there is a short clip of a young boy getting beaten up after being caught being sodomized with a tree branch by a man.
In the final years of Bhutto's life, she and her husband lived apart.
In the final, he top-scored with 72 runs.
In the first Constituent Assembly of Pakistan, composed of 69 members, two women Begum Shaista Suhrawardy Ikramullah and Begum Jahanara Shahnawaz served from 1947 to 1954.
In the first part, Pakistan was to withdraw its forces as well as other Pakistani nationals from the state.
In the first part, the FPSC tests the students in 12 different subjects.
In the first week of January, four Pakistani activists known on social media for their secular leftist views went missing.
In the following election, PMLN suffered a massive blow due to these corruptions charges, with a net loss of 24.35%.
In the following years, successive governments switched between forming alliances with MQM and fighting against it to establish greater control over Karachi.
In the formation of the Cabinet the major portion (75%), goes to National Assembly while the rest (25%) are taken from the Senate.
In the initial years and starting years, Dr. Abdus Salam, a Nobel laureate, headed the nuclear weapons program as he was the Science adviser to the prime minister.
In the last decade, hundreds of members of the ANP have been assassinated or became victims of target killings.
In the late 1970s, he joined Asghar Khan's Tehreek-e-Istiqlal, which was a notable political movement at the time.
In the late 1980s, Khan served as editor of The Cricketer, a London-based cricket magazine.
In the late night operation carried out by Major Shyam Kelkar, India was able to force Pakistani forces to retreat despite heavy casualties including Maj Kelkar.
In the light of Supreme Court's verdict, the national referendum was held on 30 April 2002, allowing himself to continue his rule.
In the meantime, Bhutto and her husband were forbidden to leave Pakistan, although they purchased an apartment in Queen's Gate, in the South Kensington area of London.
In the meantime, Commander-in-Chief of Pakistan Army General Ayub Khan and Defense minister Iskandar Mirza remained loyal to Liaquat Ali Khan.
In the meantime, Prime Minister Bhutto was imprisoned and executed in April 1979.
In the mid-1990s, MQM created widespread political violence and militancy that affected Pakistan's Sindh province, particularly Karachi, the port city that is the country's commercial capital.
In the midst of all the diverging views, the Maharaja's decision to remain independent was apparently a judicious one.
In the name of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, I call upon all Bengalees to rise against the attack by the West Pakistani Army.
In the next two years, Jinnah worked to build support among Muslims for the League.
In the north of the state lay the Gilgit Agency, which had been leased by British India but returned to the Maharaja shortly before Independence.
In the north, Skardu was brought under siege by the Gilgit Scouts.
In the northwestern province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, PTI formed a governing coalition with the Jamaat-e-Islami and Qaumi Watan parties in 2013.
In the northwestern province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, PTI has ruled with a majority government three times.
In the open session on 12 April 1936, Jinnah moved a resolution proposing Khan as the Honorary General Secretary.
In the parliamentary democracy, the ultimate responsibility for running the administration rests with the elected representatives of the people who are the ministers.
In the past we have suffered alone; this time everybody will suffer with us.… Any effort to divide Afghanistan ethnically or weaken it will create the same thing in the neighboring countries.
In the past, Indian authorities have alleged several times that Pakistan has been involved in training and arming underground militant groups to fight Indian forces in Kashmir.
In the past, this court was used as a refuge for the recalcitrant judges.
In the preceding months, around 300 Hindu men and women, Kashmiri Pandits, had been slaughtered and women raped.
In the provincial elections in January 1946, the League took 75% of the Muslim vote, an increase from 4.4% in 1937.
In the same decision the court held that the de jure Chief Justice from 3 November 2007 to 22 March 2009 was Justice Chaudhry.
In the same period Iqbal began practising law at the Chief Court of Lahore, but he soon quit law practice and devoted himself to literary works, becoming an active member of Anjuman-e-Himayat-e-Islam.
In the same report, The Commonwealth Org also recognized the 8300 SMS service which has been successfully operational since February 2012.
In the same survey, 59 percent of Pakistanis said they would accept a homosexual neighbour, while 41 percent would not.
In the same year, he also formed the Federation of Muslim Chambers of Commerce to encourage greater Muslim entrepreneurship and involvement in trade and commerce in British India and abroad.
In the same year, he was called to the bar as a barrister (or advocate) from Lincoln's Inn.
In the second part, "when the Commission shall have notified the Government of India" that Pakistani withdrawal has been completed, India was to withdraw the bulk of its forces.
In the south a minor Indian attack secured Chamb.
In the surveyed districts of the Muslim majority Kashmir Valley, where the desire for Independence is strongest, there was a high rate of concern over human rights abuses.
In the valley, another area of strategic importance was Kargil.
In the wake of Amritsar, Gandhi, who had returned to India and become a widely respected leader and highly influential in the Congress, called for satyagraha against the British.
In the wake of September 11, 2001 attacks, the relations were warmed rapidly when Pakistan denounced the Taliban and joined the NATO coalition to hunt down jihadist organizations and al-Qaeda.
In the wake of Zia-ul-Haq's sudden death and the return of democracy, the way was paved to abate the draconian media laws through a revision of media legislation called the Revised PPO (RPPO).
In the wake of fall of communism, Russian-Pakistan relations were warmed rapidly.
In the wake of intensifying political instability, the civilian bureaucracy and military assumed governing power in 1958.
In the wake of the 1968–1969 Pakistani protests, Ayub Khan resigned and transferred his authority to Yahya Khan.
In the wake of the 2013 elections, massive electoral rigging was alleged through first-hand accounts of several members of the public via social networking websites.
In the wake of the new world power equilibrium, a more complex security environment has emerged.
In the war, the Indian Army invaded East Pakistan from three sides, while the Indian Navy used the aircraft carrier INS Vikrant to impose a naval blockade of East Pakistan.
In the week before the elections, Khan was sentenced to jail terms in three separate cases.
In the weeks which followed Punjab and Bengal cast the votes which resulted in partition.
In the western front (present-day India-Pakistan border), both countries sparred indecisively.
In the western theatre of the war, the Indian Navy's Western Naval Command, under Vice admiral S.N.
In the years since 1990, the Kashmiri Muslims and the Indian government have conspired to abolish the complexities of Kashmiri civilization.
In these amendments, the Twenty-Fifth amendment incorporated the former Federally Administered Tribal Areas into the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
In these lectures Iqbal firmly rejects the political attitudes and conduct of Muslim politicians, whom he saw as morally misguided, attached to power and without any standing with the Muslim masses.
In these, he revealed his thoughts regarding Persian ideology and Islamic Sufism – in particular, his beliefs that Islamic Sufism activates the searching soul to a superior perception of life.
In these, she sought to attract foreign investment and aid for Pakistan.
In this context, Musharraf has also been criticised by women and human rights activists for not following up his words by action.
In this context, the elevation of General Asim Munir to the rank of field marshal was viewed by experts as further evidence of military dominance, despite the formal presence of a civilian government.
In this position, he was responsible for dividing the British Indian Army into the future armies of Pakistan and India.
In this project, the team held learning sessions across the country and conducted individual mentoring for journalists to produce stories that meet national and international standards.
In this respect a resolution for a vote of no-confidence is moved by not less than 20% of the total membership of the National Assembly.
In this session, Khan moved a resolution incorporating the objectives of the Pakistan Resolution in the aims and objectives of the Muslim League.
In this speech, he also incited the party workers to attack Pakistani media houses, which resulted in street rioting and one death in Karachi.
In this way, limited and controlled political activities were resumed.
In time, the Baloch nationalist insurgency erupted and sucked the armed forces into the province, pitting the Baloch tribal middle classes against Islamabad.
In times of national emergency, the Pakistan Army Reserves, supported by the National Guard and Civil Armed Forces, would likely be deployed to reinforce defensive positions and fortifications.
In total there are 149 districts in Pakistan, of which several are city districts.
In total, 351 actionable calls were received on the anti-terror helpline and National Database and Registration Authority verified 59.47 million SIMs.
In winter front such as in the Siachen and near the Wakhan Corridor, the Pakistan Army personnel wears the heavy winter all white military gear.
Inconsistently with the decision, the present Chief Justice Chaudhry accepted the stance of the government that Justice Dogar was the Chief Justice until his retirement.
Increasing anti-Indian protests took place in Kashmir in the 1980s.
Increasingly, there were Salafist protests against Bhutto in countries other than Pakistan.
Indeed China's ties with Pakistan, which were established during Mao's rule and are based on shared hostility towards India, thrive on many common interests.
Independent and international television channels went off air.
Independent journalism and podcasting on platforms such as YouTube have grown since the Pandemic.
India accused Pakistan of ceasefire violations and Nehru complained of 'warmongering propaganda' in Pakistan.
India also demanded consular access for him.
India also failed to achieve its objective of military deterrence and did not capitalise on its advantageous military situation before the ceasefire was declared.
India also pledged $25 million as aid to Pakistan.
India and Pakistan accused each other of ceasefire violations; India charged Pakistan with 585 violations in 34 days, while Pakistan countered with accusations of 450 incidents by India.
India and Pakistan both feature in the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) and the Commonwealth of Nations.
India and Pakistan have a complex and largely hostile relationship that is rooted in a multitude of historical and political events, most notably the partition of British India in August 1947.
India and Pakistan have fought in numerous armed conflicts since their independence.
India and Pakistan have fought three conventional wars throughout the 20th century over the issue of Kashmir.
India and Pakistan make widely divergent claims about the damage they inflicted on each other and the amount of damage suffered by them.
India and Pakistan signed the Karachi Agreement in July 1949 and established a ceasefire line to be supervised by observers.
India and Pakistan themselves were both categorized as "partly free".
India and US have also accused Pakistan of giving safe-haven to the Taliban.
India and the Soviet Union were pushed aside when Bhutto attacked the Indian nuclear programme, labeling the latter's program as based on nuclear proliferation.
India announced that it struck nine "terrorist infrastructure" sites in Pakistan and Pakistan-administered Kashmir, stating the targets were used to plan and direct attacks.
India appointed General Rob Lockhart as its Army chief and Pakistan appointed General Frank Messervy.
India began a large-scale mobilisation of military personnel and assets along the Pakistani border, which it codenamed Operation Parakram.
India blamed Pakistan for carrying out the attacks, an allegation which Pakistan strongly denied.
India blamed the Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistan-based militant group, for planning and executing the attacks.
India claims these insurgents are Islamic terrorist groups from Pakistani-administered Kashmir and Afghanistan, fighting to make Jammu and Kashmir a part of Pakistan.
India contends that the insurgency was largely started by Afghan mujahadeen who entered the Kashmir valley following the end of the Soviet–Afghan War.
India could not hold Kashmir "at the point of a bayonet".
India crossed the International Border on the Western front on 6 September.
India cut off supplies of fuel and coal to Junagadh, severed air and postal links, sent troops to the frontier, and occupied the principalities of Mangrol and Babariawad that had acceded to India.
India did not accept the accession as legitimate.
India gained control of about two-thirds of the Jammu and Kashmir princely state, including the Kashmir Valley, the Jammu province and Ladakh.
India gained independence the following day.
India had put on hold all the diplomatic relations saying it will only continue if Pakistan will act against the accused of Mumbai attacks.
India had recognised China a year before, and Indian Prime Minister Nehru also hoped for closer relations with the Chinese.
India had recognised the PRC a year before, and Indian Prime Minister Nehru also hoped for closer relations because India was afraid of the PRC.
India had the upper hand over Pakistan on the ground when the ceasefire was declared, but the PAF managed to achieve air superiority over the combat zones despite being numerically inferior.
India has a long history of nuclear weapons development.
India has accused some of the most wanted Indian fugitives, such as Dawood Ibrahim, of having a presence in Pakistan.
India has accused the ISI of plotting the 1993 Bombay bombings.
India has denied Pakistan's allegations.
India immediately accepted,[b] while Pakistan accepted it on 23 September, with some notable dramatics.
India increased its defence budget as it sought to acquire more state of the art equipment.
India offered aid to Pakistan in response to the 2005 Kashmir earthquake on 8 October.
India opened the first of three points at Chakan Da Bagh, in Poonch, on the Line of Control between India and Pakistan for earthquake relief work.
India pushed back the Pakistani militants and Northern Light Infantry soldiers.
India regained control of the Kargil peaks, which they now patrol and monitor all year long.
India responded by calling in its air force to blunt the Pakistani attack.
India responded that the two issues be taken up along with six others on a simultaneous basis.
India responded to the covert activity by announcing rewards for captured Pakistani spies or paratroopers.
India responded to this saying she was interfering in an "internal matter" of India, and the Indian Army fired a RPG at the Kahuta, which further escalated events, leading to full-fledged war.
India retaliated by launching a full-scale military attack on West Pakistan.
India saw the strike as an open act of unprovoked aggression, which marked the official start of the Indo-Pakistani War.
India sent 25 tonnes of relief material to Pakistan including food, blankets and medicine.
India set the condition that Kashmir must accede to India for it to receive assistance.
India sought resolution of the issue at the UN Security Council, despite Sheikh Abdullah's opposition to it.
India states that the terrorists have killed many citizens in Kashmir and committed human rights violations whilst denying that their own armed forces are responsible for human rights abuses.
India successfully led a diplomatic campaign to isolate Pakistan.
India surrendered and called for retreat.
India then decided to open up the theatre of attack into Pakistani Punjab and forced the Pakistani army to relocate troops engaged in the Chumb operation to defend Punjab.
India then launched a counter-offensive.
India thereby achieved total air superiority on the eastern front.
India therefore maintains that they are not willing to break the established regulations and they see no more problems with this issue.
India took the matter to the United Nations.
India treated all the PoWs in strict accordance with the Geneva Convention, rule 1925.
India was brought under direct rule of the British Empire in 1858.
India was ready to return them in exchange for a "durable solution" to the Kashmir issue.
India would eventually be drawn into said war, fighting on behalf of the Bangladeshis against Pakistan; the war would later extend into the Indo-Pakistani war of 1971.
India's Army Headquarters was taken by surprise.
India's Border Security Force blamed the Pakistani military for providing cover-fire for the terrorists whenever they infiltrated into Indian territory from Pakistan.
India's Prime Minister, Shastri, suffered a fatal heart attack soon after the Tashkent Agreement on 11 January 1966.
India's chief of army staff urged negotiations on the ground that they were running out of ammunition and their number of tanks had become seriously depleted.
India's defence budget too would increase gradually after the war.
India's entry expanded the existing conflict with Indian and Pakistani forces engaging on both the eastern and western fronts.
India's junior foreign minister M. J. Akbar criticised Nawaz for glorifying Wani.
India's participation in the Non-Aligned Movement yielded little support from its members.
India, on the other hand, showcased a cache of gas masks as proof that Pakistan may have been prepared to use non-conventional weapons.
Indian Army crossed the cease fire line on 15 August and captured several previously infiltrated peaks overlooking the Srinagar – Leh Highway.
Indian Governor-General Rajagopalachari cancelled an official reception that day in Jinnah's honour.
Indian Home Minister Rajnath Singh accused Pakistan of backing unrest in Kashmir.
Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi concluded that instead of taking in millions of refugees, India would be economically better off going to war against Pakistan.
Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi provided extensive diplomatic and political support to the Bangladesh movement.
Indian analysts and the JKLF have accused Pakistan of training and backing terrorists.
Indian and Pakistani High Commissioners consulted with one another regarding cooperation in relief work.
Indian army military operations head Lieutenant-General Ranbir Singh claimed that there was evidence the attackers were members of an Islamist militant group in Pakistan.
Indian authorities said in 2008 and 2021 that militancy was on the decline.
Indian claims that they possession of 1,920 km2 (740 sq mi) of Pakistani territory and the Pakistan army held 550 km2 (210 sq mi) of Indian territory.
Indian commentators state that he reneged on the promise.
Indian estimates stand at 1,042 Pakistani soldiers killed.
Indian forces ceased pursuit of tribal forces after recapturing Uri and Baramula, and sent a relief column southwards, in an attempt to relieve Poonch.
Indian forces subsequently take control of Dras.
Indian intelligence agencies have claimed they have proof of ISI involvement with the Naxalites.
Indian leaders were angered at Jinnah's attempts to convince the princes of Jodhpur, Udaipur, Bhopal and Indore to accede to Pakistan—the latter three princely states did not border Pakistan.
Indian leadership initially envisioned a well trained force of 8,000 guerrillas, operating in small cells around Bangladesh to facilitate eventual conventional combat.
Indian military intelligence gave no warning of the impending Pakistan invasion.
Indian officers and an Indian diplomat, MEA joint secretary for Pakistan AK Ray, had to form a human chain around Lt Gen Niazi to protect him from being lynched.
Indian officials claim that troops need such powers because the army is only deployed when national security is at serious risk from armed combatants.
Indian officials demanded Pakistan extradite suspects for trial.
Indian question, as is now being solved, can be countered by our united front against both the Hindus and the English.
Indian security forces have assaulted civilians during search operations, tortured and summarily executed detainees in custody and murdered civilians in reprisal attacks.
Indian security forces including the army responded quickly to keep order.
Indian sources claim that it was not their intention to get into a naval conflict with Pakistan, and wished to restrict the war to a land-based conflict.
Indian troops managed to evict the invading tribes from the Kashmir Valley but the onset of winter made much of the state impassable.
Indian troops occupied Junagadh on 9 November 1947.
Indian troops were sent to the state to defend it.
Indian units had also come within artillery range of Dacca.
Indian writer Nirad C. Chaudhuri has observed that Pakistan's acceptance of Western support ensured its survival.
Indians were angered by media reports of the death of pilot Ajay Ahuja, especially after Indian authorities reported that Ahuja had been murdered and his body mutilated by Pakistani troops.
Individuals born to parents who are citizens by descent only may alternatively acquire citizenship if their births are registered at a Pakistani diplomatic mission.
Individuals convicted under the National Accountability Bureau Ordinance are prohibited from holding political office for ten years.
Individuals who were naturalised in the UK were deemed to have received the status by imperial naturalisation, which was valid throughout the Empire.
Indonesia has its embassy in Islamabad and a consulate in Karachi and Pakistan has its embassy in Jakarta and a consulate in Medan.
Industries, such as Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KSEC), were under complete government control with no private influence in KESC decision.
Initial reports from the police suggest that the perpetrator was closely related to the victim and that it might be an incident of honour killing.
Initially Imran Khan claimed that the United States was behind his ouster, claiming US Assistant Secretary of State Donald Lu threatened his government through a diplomatic cipher.
Initially Pakistan said it shot down both jets after they crossed into its territory.
Initially aimed at financing public sector industrial enterprises, its charter was later modified to provide finance to the private sector as well.
Initially denying rumors, Bhutto resigned in June 1966, expressing strong opposition to Ayub's regime.
Initially involving border police from both nations, the disputed area soon witnessed intermittent skirmishes between the countries' armed forces.
Initially reaching a compromise with its rival Pakistan Muslim League (N), the party spearheaded the efforts to impeach President Pervez Musharraf who later resigned.
Initially, Carter offered Pakistan $325 million in aid over three years; Zia rejected this as "peanuts".
Initially, Yahya was confined to the Banni rest-house, a forest bungalow near Kharian, without a formal detention order.
Initially, he could bat but not bowl; later, he could not play at all.
Initially, however, Iqbal and Jinnah were opponents, as Iqbal believed Jinnah did not care about the crises confronting the Muslim community during the British Raj.
Initially, the Indian Army met with considerable success, capturing three important mountain positions after a prolonged artillery barrage.
Initially, the Supreme Court met in Karachi and later moved to Lahore/Rawalpindi on various location until 1960 after the government moved to Islamabad.
Initially, there were 12 copies that were all destroyed, except for the one that was kept and marked as "Top Secret" to prevent the backlash effects on the demoralised military.
Insaf Research Wing (IRW) was established to conduct research aimed at finding solutions to issues in Pakistan.
Inspector General of Police Punjab Dr. Usman Anwar confirmed the use of geo-fencing to trace these communications, naming Imran Khan as a prime suspect in orchestrating the attacks.
Instead a new system of capitalism was revived with the introduction of corporatisation and the Islamization of the economy.
Instead of satisfying the Bengalis, it intensified their vocalness for separatism, causing a further rise in anti-West Wing sentiment in the East Wing.
Instead, Ahmed thought, its policies primarily benefited "the privileged classes" and was thus a right-wing rather than left-wing party.
Instead, Ayub proposed a "joint defense union" with India, shocking Bhutto, who felt Ayub Khan lacked understanding of international affairs.
Instead, XV Corps under Lt Gen Katoch was tasked with securing Nowshera.
Instead, he proposed the idea of having two Prime Ministers, one for each wing.
Instead, the Muslim Conference launched a 'campaign of action' similar to Muslim League's programme in British India.
Instead, the executive power is exercised on his behalf by the prime minister who keeps him informed on all matters of internal and foreign policy, as well as all legislative proposals.
Instead, they turned in infiltrators to the Indian authorities in substantial numbers, and the Indian Army ended up fighting the Pakistani Army regulars.
Institutional and judicial procedures were later changed, in 1950s, under the influence of American legal system to remove the fundamental rights problems.
Institutional problems arose with president Ishaq, who attempted to dismiss Sharif on the same charges he had used against Benazir Bhutto.
Intense communal rioting in the Punjab forced the governments of India and Pakistan to agree to a forced population exchange of Muslim and Hindu/Sikh minorities living in Punjab.
Intense political and religious transformations have left prominent marks on contemporary women's lives and the challenges they face.
Intent on a career in the Pakistani Foreign Service, she was scheduled to take the service's entrance exams later in the year.
Interest payments for bank accounts were replaced by "profit and loss" payments.
Interior Minister Sheikh Rasheed Ahmad later confirmed that Rizvi had not been freed.
Internal opposition and disapproval of Asif Zardari and Benazir Bhutto's policies by her brother Murtaza Bhutto created a rift in their relations.
International observers from the European Union and the Commonwealth of Nations said the election met basic conditions but would not describe it as 'free and fair'.
International officials have accused the ISI of continuing to support and even lead the Taliban during the 2001-2021 War in Afghanistan.
International opinion considered China's actions to be dangerously reckless and aggressive, and it was soundly rebuked in the world press for its unnecessarily provocative stance during the conflict.
International reactions to the coup were largely muted, and two of Pakistan's neighbors, India and China, did not issue any statements.
International television and radio broadcasts are usually available, with the important exception of a complete blockade of Indian television news channels.
Internationally condemned, but extremely popular at home, Sharif took steps to control the economy.
Internationally condemned, the Kargil war was followed by the Atlantique Incident, which came on a bad juncture for the Prime minister Sharif who no longer had broad public support for his government.
Internationally, Ali Khan's character was portrayed by actor Yousuf "Shakeel" Kamal in the 1998 film Jinnah.
Internationally, Bhutto is viewed positively as a secular internationalist.
Internationally, the level of support which Pakistan received was limited at best.
Iqbal Academy Lahore has published magazines on Iqbal in Persian, English and Urdu.
Iqbal also wrote some poems in Punjabi, such as "Piyaara Jedi" and "Baba Bakri Wala", which he penned in 1929 on the occasion of his son Javed's birthday.
Iqbal and Karim Bibi separated somewhere between 1910 and 1913.
Iqbal became even more popular in Iran in the 1970s.
Iqbal ceased practising law in 1934 and was granted a pension by the Nawab of Bhopal.
Iqbal consistently criticised feudal classes in Punjab as well as Muslim politicians opposed to the League.
Iqbal denounced political divisions within and amongst Muslim nations, and frequently alluded to and spoke in terms of the global Muslim community or the Ummah.
Iqbal first became interested in national affairs in his youth.
Iqbal gradually succeeded in converting Jinnah over to his view, who eventually accepted Iqbal as his mentor.
Iqbal has also been cited as an influential force in convincing Jinnah to end his self-imposed exile in London and re-enter the politics of India.
Iqbal has been referred to as the "Poet of the East" by academics, institutions and the media.
Iqbal inspired many intellectuals, including Ali Shariati, Mehdi Bazargan and Abdulkarim Soroush.
Iqbal is also called Muffakir-e-Pakistan ("The Thinker of Pakistan") and Hakeem-ul-Ummat ("The Sage of the Ummah").
Iqbal is considered the greatest Urdu poet of the 20th century.
Iqbal is widely commemorated in Pakistan, where he is regarded as the ideological founder of the state.
Iqbal laments the dissension and disunity among the Indian Muslims as well as Muslim nations.
Iqbal married four times under different circumstances.
Iqbal often mentioned and commemorated his Kashmiri lineage in his writings.
Iqbal thought that Muslims had long been suppressed by the colonial enlargement and growth of the West.
Iqbal thus stressed not only the need for the political unity of Muslim communities but the undesirability of blending the Muslim population into a wider society not based on Islamic principles.
Iqbal urges the entire Muslim community, addressed as the Ummah, to define personal, social and political existence by the values and teachings of Islam.
Iqbal was awarded a scholarship at Trinity College, Cambridge, and in 1906 he graduated Bachelor of Arts there.
Iqbal was born and raised in Sialkot, Punjab, British India and studied at Scotch Mission College in Sialkot and Government College in Lahore.
Iqbal was born on 9 November 1877 in Sialkot, Punjab Province, British India (now in Pakistan).
Iqbal was deeply influenced by Punjabi Sufis.
Iqbal was elected president of the Muslim League in 1930 at its session in Allahabad in the United Provinces, as well as for the session in Lahore in 1932.
Iqbal was four years old when he was sent to a mosque to receive instruction in reading the Qur'an.
Iqbal was influenced by the teachings of Sir Thomas Arnold, his philosophy teacher at Government College Lahore, to pursue higher education in the West.
Iqbal was not acquainted with Persian idiom, as he spoke Urdu at home and talked to his friends in Urdu or English.
Iqbal was not only a prolific writer but also a known advocate.
Iqbal was the first patron of Tolu-e-Islam, an historical, political, religious and cultural journal of the Muslims of British India.
Iqbal wrote two books, The Development of Metaphysics in Persia (1908) and The Reconstruction of Religious Thought in Islam (1930), and many letters in the English language.
Iqbal's 1924 publication, the Payam-e-Mashriq پیامِ مشرق (The Message of the East), is closely connected to the West-östlicher Diwan by the German poet Goethe.
Iqbal's 1932 work, the Javed Nama جاوید نامہ (Book of Javed), is named after and in a manner addressed to his son, who is featured in the poems.
Iqbal's Asrar-i-Khudi and Javed Nama were translated into English by R. A. Nicholson and A. J. Arberry, respectively.
Iqbal's Asrare-i-Khudi and Bal-i-Jibreel are particularly popular in Iran.
Iqbal's close correspondence with Jinnah is speculated by some historians as having been responsible for Jinnah's embrace of the idea of Pakistan.
Iqbal's final work was Armughan-e-Hijaz ارمغانِ حجاز (The Gift of Hijaz), published posthumously in 1938.
Iqbal's grandfather was an eighth cousin of Sir Tej Bahadur Sapru, an important lawyer and freedom fighter who would eventually become an admirer of Iqbal.
Iqbal's influence also gave Jinnah a deeper appreciation for Muslim identity.
Iqbal's mother Imam Bibi, a Kashmiri from Sambrial, was described as a polite and humble woman who helped the poor and her neighbours with their problems.
Iqbal's mother-tongue was Punjabi, and he conversed mostly in Punjabi and Urdu in his daily life.
Iqbal's poetic works are written primarily in Persian rather than Urdu.
Iqbal's poetry was translated into many European languages in the early part of the 20th century.
Iqbal's revolutionary works through his poetry affected the Muslims of the subcontinent.
Iqbal's six English lectures were published in Lahore in 1930, and then by the Oxford University Press in 1934 in the book The Reconstruction of Religious Thought in Islam.
Iqbal's thoughts in his work primarily focus on the spiritual direction and development of human society, centered around experiences from his travels and stays in Western Europe and the Middle East.
Iqbal's views on the Western world have been applauded by Westerners, including United States Supreme Court Associate Justice William O. Douglas, who said that Iqbal's beliefs had "universal appeal".
Iqbal's vision of mystical experience is clear in one of his Urdu ghazals, which was written in London during his student days.
Iqbal's works were in Persian for most of his career, but after 1930 his works were mainly in Urdu.
Iranian poet laureate Muhammad Taqi Bahar universalised Iqbal in Iran.
Iraq under Sunni President Saddam Hussein sent Iraqi-made weapons to Pakistan's warm water ports.
Ireland is represented in Pakistan through its embassy in Riyadh (Saudi Arabia) and an honorary consulate in Karachi.
Irregularities, alleged torture, and inconsistent confessions marred the trial.
Iskandar Ali Mirza is often criticized by Pakistani historians for imposing martial law.
Iskander Mirza appointed then-Army Commander of the Pakistan Army, General Ayub Khan, as the Chief Martial Law Administrator (CMLA), which proved his undoing within three weeks.
Iskander Mirza had lost the support of many of the leading politicians and was alarmed at a plan by Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy to unite the political leadership of Bengal and Punjab against him.
Iskander Mirza is thus widely held responsible for the instability that brought the active role of Pakistan armed forces into politics.
Iskander Mirza ruled East Pakistan with an iron fist, having arrested 319–659 political activists in his first week, including Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and Yusuf Ali Chowdhury.
Islam and its idealism have taught us democracy.
Islam heavily influences gender roles in particular.
Islam was declared as the State religion of Pakistan.
Islamabad and Manama enjoy close co-operations between the two in many fields of brotherhood.
Islamabad supports the Maldivian position in the territorial dispute over the southern Indian colony of Minicoy Island in the Lakshadweep, whose population is Muslim by faith.
Islamic fundamentalist groups clamoured for a plebiscite.
Islamic groups in Pakistan, issued a fatwa proclaiming Jihad against the US.
Islamic scholars debated over whether it was possible for the proposed Pakistan to truly become an Islamic state.
Ismat Chughtai, who was part of the Progressive Writers Association, is regarded as an important feminist writer of Urdu.
JUI (F) leader Fazlur Rahman is also reportedly involved in negotiating agreements between the Pakistani Taliban and military and the Afghan Taliban and the US.
JUI (F), JUI-F),[b] is an Islamic fundamentalist political party in Pakistan.
JUI party workers and leaders are mostly products of the madrassa system, although the JUI (F) has often fielded candidates from a mainstream educational background.
JUI-S influence is largely restricted to a few districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK), whereas the JUI (F) is predominant in the Pashtun areas of Balochistan and KPK.
Jagmohan is said to have failed to distinguish between the secular forms and Islamist expressions of Kashmiri identity, and hence saw that identity as a threat.
Jagmohan's pro-Hindu bias in the administration led to an increase in the appeal of the Muslim United Front.
Jahangir’s fearless commitment to speaking out for the voiceless turned her into a beacon for women and marginalized communities, not just in Pakistan but across the globe.
Jaish-e-Mohammad stronghold of Bahawalpur and Lashkar-e-Taiba's base in Muridke were among the targets.
Jalaluddin medal for his performance in Arabic.
Jamaat-e-Islami and other groups of religious conservatives in Pakistan condemned the event and protested.
Jamali had been appointed with the support of Musharraf's and the pro-Musharraf PML(Q).
Jamia Binoria criticised the government's decisions.
Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam Pakistan,[a] also known as Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (Fazl) (abbr.
Jammu & Kashmir National Conference won 75 seats under the leadership of Sheikh Abdullah.
Jammu and Kashmir Coalition of Civil Society labels the happenings in Kashmir as war crimes and genocide and have issued a statement that those responsible should be tried in court of law.
Jammu and Kashmir was a princely state of British India with a local Hindu monarch who ruled a population that was majority Muslim.
Jammu and Kashmir, being adjacent to the Punjab province, was directly affected by the happenings in Punjab.
Jammu and Kashmir, the largest of the princely states, had a predominantly Muslim population ruled by the Hindu Maharaja Hari Singh.
Japan has been part of funding the country with machines to access ground water, as well as aid for improving its sewer and drainage systems.
Japan's history of imperialism was explained by Du to his fellow Muslims.
Javaid Manzil was Iqbal's last residence.
Javed retired as a high-level official in Pakistan's civil service.
Javelin Advisors’ Keith Schiller, Trump's former bodyguard, and George Sorial, The Trump Organization’s former compliance chief were brought onboard.
Jillani Saqib Nisar and Asif Saeed Khosa have gain prominent attention from media in all over the country, mainly due to their ideological and philosophical leanings.
Jinnah abandoned local garb for Western-style clothing, and throughout his life he was always impeccably dressed in public.
Jinnah also faced problems with Pakistan Army's Commander-in-Chief General Sir Douglas Gracey who refused to obey the orders of Jinnah.
Jinnah also increasingly adopted Muslim dress in the late 1930s.
Jinnah also worked to increase the League's political control at the provincial level.
Jinnah and Iqbal corresponded in 1936 and 1937; in subsequent years, Jinnah credited Iqbal as his mentor and used Iqbal's imagery and rhetoric in his speeches.
Jinnah arranged to sell his house in Bombay and procured a new one in Karachi.
Jinnah attended a reception for Gandhi where the two men met and talked with each other for the first time.
Jinnah became a key leader in the All-India Home Rule League, and proposed a fourteen-point constitutional reform plan to safeguard the political rights of Muslims in the Indian subcontinent.
Jinnah began political life by attending the Congress's twentieth annual meeting, in Bombay in December 1904.
Jinnah believed public knowledge of his lung ailments would hurt him politically.
Jinnah concluded his address with "Pakistan Zindabad" (Long live Pakistan), which was not in the script.
Jinnah continued to correspond cordially with his daughter, but their personal relationship was strained, and she did not come to Pakistan in his lifetime, but only for his funeral.
Jinnah criticised Gandhi's Khilafat advocacy, which he saw as an endorsement of religious zealotry.
Jinnah devoted much of his time to his law practice in the early 1900s, but remained politically involved.
Jinnah did not attend the subsequent League meeting, held in the same city, which passed a similar resolution.
Jinnah did not succeed, but obtained an acquittal for Tilak when he was charged with sedition again in 1916.
Jinnah died at age 71 in September 1948, just over a year after Pakistan gained independence from the United Kingdom.
Jinnah died later that night at 10:20 pm at his home in Karachi on 11 September 1948 at the age of 71, just over a year after Pakistan's creation.
Jinnah earned the title Quaid-e-Azam (meaning "Great Leader").
Jinnah gained great esteem from leading the case for Sir Pherozeshah, himself a noted barrister.
Jinnah had always been reluctant to undergo medical treatment but realising his condition was getting worse, the Pakistani government sent the best doctors it could find to treat him.
Jinnah had no comment on the change of government, but called a meeting of his Working Committee and issued a statement calling for new elections in India.
Jinnah had personally requested Prime Minister Nehru to preserve the house, hoping one day he could return to Bombay.
Jinnah has gained the admiration of Indian nationalist politicians such as Lal Krishna Advani, whose comments praising Jinnah caused an uproar in his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).
Jinnah is depicted on all Pakistani rupee currency, and is the namesake of many Pakistani public institutions.
Jinnah later became estranged from Dina after she decided to marry a Parsi, Neville Wadia from a prominent business family.
Jinnah later stated, "after the war began, ...
Jinnah led another delegation of the Congress to London in 1914, but due to the start of the First World War in August 1914, found officials little interested in Indian reforms.
Jinnah listened to Naoroji's maiden speech in the House of Commons from the visitor's gallery.
Jinnah not only began to echo Iqbal in his speeches, he started using Islamic symbolism and began directing his addresses to the underprivileged.
Jinnah objected to this action, and ordered that Pakistani troops move into Kashmir.
Jinnah of Pakistan (1984) by Stanley Wolpert is regarded as one of the best biographical books on Jinnah.
Jinnah played an important role in the founding of the All India Home Rule League in 1916.
Jinnah pointed out that Muslim women leaders from all classes actively supported the Pakistan movement in the mid-1940s.
Jinnah politely declined the offer, stating that he planned to earn 1,500 rupees a day—a huge sum at that time—which he eventually did.
Jinnah regarded Gandhi's proposed satyagraha campaign as political anarchy, and believed that self-government should be secured through constitutional means.
Jinnah returned to India in December 1934 and started to reorganise the All-India Muslim League.
Jinnah rose to prominence in the Indian National Congress in the first two decades of the 20th century.
Jinnah sought alternative political ideas, and contemplated organising a new political party as a rival to the Congress.
Jinnah was a delegate to the first two conferences, but was not invited to the last.
Jinnah was also a supporter of working class causes and an active trade unionist.
Jinnah was also appointed to a committee which helped to establish the Indian Military Academy in Dehra Dun.
Jinnah was buried on 12 September 1948 amid official mourning in both India and Pakistan; a million people gathered for his funeral led by Shabbir Ahmad Usmani.
Jinnah was from a wealthy merchant background.
Jinnah was not able to take active part in the proceedings of the Assembly due to his heavy political workload.
Jinnah was not fluent in Gujarati, his mother-tongue, nor in Urdu; he was more fluent in English.
Jinnah was the central figure of the 1998 film Jinnah, which was based on Jinnah's life and his struggle for the creation of Pakistan.
Jinnah was the eldest child; he had three brothers and four sisters, including his younger sister Fatima Jinnah and younger brother Ahmed Ali Jinnah.
Jinnah's condition continued to deteriorate despite the Eid prayers of his people.
Jinnah's health further deteriorated and he died in 1948.
Jinnah's legal education followed the pupillage (legal apprenticeship) system, which had been in force there for centuries.
Jinnah's mother and first wife both died during his absence in England.
Jinnah's paternal grandfather lived in Gondal state in Kathiawar peninsula (now in Gujarat, India).
Jinnah's position on whether Pakistan would be governed as a secular or an Islamic state remains a contested debate among historians and academics.
Jinnah's strategy to liberate Kashmir was to use military force.
Jinnah's vision for Pakistan was heavily inspired by the First Islamic state created by the Islamic prophet Muhammad in Medina.
Jinnah, however, was reluctant to go, not wishing his aides to see him as an invalid on a stretcher.
Jinnah, on the other hand, was more willing to accommodate the British, and they in turn increasingly recognised him and the League as the representatives of India's Muslims.
Joanne Herring, an American socialite, is widely believed to have influenced General Zia Ul Haq's foreign policies.
Jodhpur bordered it and had both a Hindu majority population and a Hindu ruler.
John Burns, a journalist from The New York Times, investigated the business transactions of Bhutto and her husband, exposing the scale of their corruption.
John O. Brennan, Obama's chief counterterrorism advisor, said that it was inconceivable that bin Laden did not have support from within Pakistan.
Johnson hoped that a more evenhanded policy towards both countries would soften the tensions in South Asia, and bring both nations closer to the United States.
Joint Intelligence/North (JIN) has been accused of conducting operations in Jammu and Kashmir and also Afghanistan.
Joint Intelligence/North is responsible for conducting operations in Jammu and Kashmir and Afghanistan.
Joint Ministerial Commission agreement between the two countries was signed in 1974.
Joint initiatives between Bahraini and Pakistani governments have started to further bilateral trades that reached $250 million in 2007.
Jonathan Orders introduced him to Susie Murray-Philipson, whom he later invited to Pakistan and had dinner with in 1982.
Journalist Arzoo Kazmi, whose channel was also banned, called it an attempt to silence Imran Khan supporters, despite not being one herself.
Journalist and historian Nadeem F. Paracha and journalist Tahir Mehdi have highlighted the 1997 elections' controversial aspects.
Journalists also have been victims of violence and intimidation by various groups and individuals.
Journalists face widespread threats and violence making Pakistan one of the worst countries to be a journalist in, with 61 being killed since September 2001 and at least 6 murdered in 2013 alone.
Journalists said that targeted operations are only against MQM.
Journalists will study each other's cultures as they are immersed in newsrooms in each country.
Journalists, who encounter threats and attacks, are resorting to self-censorship more frequently to protect themselves.
Joy Bangla [May Bangladesh be victorious].
Judges of the Judicial Service are generally ignored during the selection while influential Lawyers who have political support from Political Parties and Bars make it to the higher Judiciary.
Judging from the situation, the things however had changed as the time and situation both were demanding the complete solution.
Judicial academies provide training for judges and judicial officials from within the country and other countries.
Judicial magistrates possesses territorial jurisdiction police station wise as per notification issued by the Court of Session Judge.
Julia Verdin and Doone Murray were among other women associated with him, with their relationships receiving media attention.
Junagadh was a state on the south-western end of Gujarat, with the principalities of Manavadar, Mangrol and Babriawad.
Junejo gradually fell out with Zia as his administrative independence grew; for instance, Junejo signed the Geneva Accord, which Zia disapproved of.
Junejo in turn extended Zia's term as Chief of Army Staff until 1990.
Jurisdiction of juvenile courts was conferred to sessions judges and judicial magistrates in accordance with their original jurisdiction under Code of Criminal Procedure.
Just before his execution, Zulfikar urged his wife and daughter to leave Pakistan, but they refused.
Just prior to the election, Nawaz confirmed he had a long telephone conversation with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, suggesting a desire to improve diplomatic relations.
Justice Qazi Faez Isa is of the Hazara descent who is currently serving as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.
Juvenile Justice System Act provides that every person below the age of 18 years is juvenile.
Kamalpur, Belonia and the Battle of Boyra are a few examples.
Kami Sid was also accused of rape and sexual assault after which Aurat March organisers removed her from serving as a part of their organising team in 2018.
Kami Sid's participation in the PR campaign Change The Clap has also been critiqued for appeasing neoliberal forces and ignoring local practices of the Khawaja Sira community.
Kanwal Ahmed is the founder of Soul Sisters Pakistan (SSP), a forum for those who identify as women and have roots in Pakistan.
Karachi was then enjoying an economic boom: the opening of the Suez Canal in 1869 meant it was 200 nautical miles closer to Europe for shipping than Bombay.
Karachi will be made a crime-free city and the operation will continue to achieve the objective.
Karan Singh, the son of the erstwhile Maharajah Hari Singh was made the Sadr-i-Riyasat (Constitutional Head of State) and the Governor of the state.
Kargil is just 173 km (107 mi) from the Pakistani-controlled town of Skardu, which was capable of providing logistical and artillery support to Pakistani combatants.
Kargil town was in Indian hands, but Pakistan occupied high ground overlooking Kargil and Srinagar-Leh road.
Kargil was targeted partly because the terrain was conducive to the preemptive seizure of several unoccupied military positions.
Kashmir (Azad Kashmir) has its own constitution, the Azad Jammu and Kashmir Interim Constitution Act of 1974, and a locally chosen parliamentary form of government, as described above.
Kashmir was a Muslim-majority princely state, ruled by a Hindu king, Maharaja Hari Singh.
Kashmiri Pandit activist Prem Nath Bazaz wrote that if free elections were held, the majority of seats would be won by those not friendly to India.
Kashmiri was described by Bruce Riedel as a 'prominent' Al-Qaeda member, while others described him as the head of military operations for Al-Qaeda.
Kazakhstan is an emerging market for Pakistani goods.
Key aspects of American foreign policy were deeply unpopular in Pakistan, particularly U.S. drone strikes.
Khan accused Nawaz of plundering the national wealth, and called on the public to withhold taxes and payment of utility bills to force the government to resign.
Khan along with Lal Bahadur Shastri signed the Tashkent Declaration.
Khan also accused India of raising its defence budget in the past two years, a charge which Nehru rejected while expressing surprise at Khan's dismissal of the 'virulent' anti-Indian propaganda.
Khan also adopted a smart lockdown strategy, which used military technology for tracking and tracing COVID-19 cases, targeting specific virus hotspots instead of implementing a nationwide lockdown.
Khan and Jemima Goldsmith confirmed their engagement on 12 May 1995.
Khan and Nehru also disagreed on the details of the no-war declarations.
Khan and Nehru also signed a trade agreement, and committed to resolving bilateral conflicts through peaceful means.
Khan and the Muslim League faced dual competitions with socialists in West-Pakistan and, the communists in East Pakistan.
Khan as the new naval chief but civil-military relations continued to be a dominant factor between President Mirza and General Ayub Khan.
Khan assisted Jinnah in the campaign for what would become known as the Pakistan Movement and was known as his 'right hand'.
Khan attributed Bhutto's government members corruption in government-owned industries as the major sinkhole in Pakistan's economy that failed to compete with neighboring India's economy.
Khan attributed the outcome to his government, especially former energy minister Hammad Azhar, who led the FATF Coordination Committee.
Khan became PTI's parliamentary leader in the National Assembly after the 2013 elections.
Khan began to develop tighter relations with the Soviet Union, China, Poland, and Iran under its Prime Minister Mohammed Mossadegh as well.
Khan blamed Bhutto for this extensive economic slowdown and her policy that failed to stop the illegal immigration.
Khan blamed the incumbent government—Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif, Interior Minister Rana Sanaullah, and Major General Faisal Naseer—for the assassination plot but provided no evidence.
Khan called for debt relief for developing nations during the pandemic, a proposal that gained support from the United Nations and several African countries.
Khan called it "the most important occasion in the life of this country, next in importance, only to the achievement of independence".
Khan called physicist and mathematician Raziuddin Siddiqui, asking him to plan and establish educational research institutes in the country.
Khan decided not to send Pakistani forces to KOrea, a clear indication that Pakistan was working towards the Non-Aligned Movement.
Khan decided to push for the dissolution of the provincial assemblies of Punjab and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa to force early elections instead of continuing the march.
Khan declined to engage with India after the August 2019 Revocation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, and twice denied permission for Narendra Modi's flight to cross Pakistani airspace.
Khan declined to forge alliances with other parties to establish a coalition government and instead opted to assume an opposition role in parliament.
Khan demanded Nawaz's resignation over allegations that the 2013 general election was rigged.
Khan did not take over the office of Governor-General, instead appointing Khawaja Nazimuddin, a Bengali statesman from East-Pakistan.
Khan died the following year in Rawalpindi and was buried in Peshawar.
Khan discussed "economic and energy cooperation" with Russian president Vladimir Putin, including development of the Pakistan Stream gas pipeline.
Khan does not hold the position of official chairman due to his current state in the Adiala Prison.
Khan embarked his parliamentary career, representing the United Provinces at the Legislative Council in 1926.
Khan entered into an agreement with the Sharif administration to establish a three-member high-powered judicial commission which would be formed under a presidential ordinance.
Khan established The Imran Khan Foundation (IKF) in February 2006.
Khan faced with mounted challenges and difficulties while trying to administer the country.
Khan had several relationships in his bachelorhood.
Khan had successfully reorganized the Muslim League that was threatening the reelection and the political endorsement for Mirza for his second term of the presidency.
Khan had vast, unchecked Presidential powers and was known to be close to the Pakistani military.
Khan has been nominated twice for the Nobel Peace Prize.
Khan has written opinion pieces for Outlook, The Guardian, and the BBC.
Khan himself has been arrested and detained on several occasions.
Khan himself survived an assassination attempt, though he suffered injuries after the attempt, while Khan blamed the incumbent government for the attack.
Khan inaugurated the Kartarpur Corridor on 9 November 2019, providing visa-free access for Indian Sikh pilgrims.
Khan initiated reforms in cricket umpiring to reduce criticism of Pakistani officials in home series.
Khan introduced a new presidential system called "Basic Democracy", by which an electoral college of 80,000 would select the president.
Khan is Pakistan's longest serving Prime Minister spending 1,524 days in power.
Khan is considered a chief architect of the Bangladesh genocide along with his deputies Hamid Khan and Tikka Khan.
Khan is credited with economic prosperity and industrialisation.
Khan is viewed largely negatively by Pakistani historians and is considered among the worst but also one of the most misunderstood of the country's leaders.
Khan joined academician Sir Ziauddin Ahmed, taking to organise the Muslim students' communities into one student union, advocating for the provisional rights of the Muslim state.
Khan later said the rapist is always solely responsible, the victim never is, and his earlier comments were taken out of context.
Khan later tried to visit Soviet Union but the dates for goodwill visit were not materialized by Soviet Union.
Khan launched Pakistan's largest welfare programme, distributing a lump sum of Rs12,000 to 10 million low-income citizens under the Ehsaas Programme.
Khan lead the march from Peshawar, the capital of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, where his provincial government helped him.
Khan led Pakistan to victory in the 1992 Cricket World Cup.
Khan led the march from Peshawar, the capital of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, where his provincial government helped him.
Khan made his Test cricket debut against England in June 1971 at Edgbaston.
Khan made his first-class debut at 16 in Lahore.
Khan named a new civil-military government under him.
Khan opposed the proposed ethics committee after its composition emerged, calling it unfair for a government formed body, and said an independent panel should first assess the allegations.
Khan participated in the 2002 Pakistani general election and said that if his party did not win a majority, they would consider forming a coalition.
Khan privatised state-owned industries and liberalised the economy generally.
Khan remained under house surveillance prior to 1979 when he was released by Fazle Haq.
Khan remains the country's longest-serving president and second-longest serving head of state.
Khan reportedly retained 58 gifts, 14 valued over Rs 14,000 each.
Khan rose to become one of the influential members of the Muslim League and was one of the central figures in the Muslim League delegation that attended the National Convention held at Calcutta.
Khan said Munir's proposed investigation was not the reason for his removal.
Khan said Pakistan was not involved in the attack and authorised the military to respond with force to any Indian aggression.
Khan said that "Musharraf gave centrifuges to North Korea in a 2000 shipment supervised by the armed forces.
Khan said the visit was pre-planned and was intended to maintain neutrality in global alliances.
Khan says his imprisonment is politically motivated, alleging involvement by the Pakistan Armed Forces (the Establishment) and Shehbaz Sharif's government.
Khan sent invitations to Stalin and the Polish Communist leader Władysław Gomułka to visit the country.
Khan successfully campaigned against his opponent, Fatima Jinnah, for a second term, but some have alleged that elections were rigged in favour of Ayub Khan.
Khan supported Turkey during the 2019 Turkish offensive into north-eastern Syria.
Khan then submitted a peace plan calling for a withdrawal of troops, settlement in Kashmir by plebiscite, renouncing the use of force, end to war propaganda and the signing of a no-war pact.
Khan urged overseas Pakistanis to support Nisar's fundraiser.
Khan urged the need of acceleration of nuclear energy programme and develop a credible nuclear deterrent capability.
Khan wanted to send the divisions but asked the U.S. for assurances on Kashmir, which the U.S. declined to give.
Khan was a major supporter of unity within the Islamic world, advocating for the independence of Muslim nations from European colonialism.
Khan was accused of personally attacking Nawaz and was given notice by the Election Commission of Pakistan, though Khan denied it.
Khan was born in Karnal, Haryana, to a wealthy family.
Khan was born in Lahore on 5 October 1952.
Khan was chairing the Insaf panel and earned 189,055 votes while the rival Ehtesab panel secured 41,647 votes.
Khan was educated at the Aligarh Muslim University and the University of Oxford.
Khan was elected to the provisional legislative council in the 1926 elections from the rural Muslim constituency of Muzaffarnagar.
Khan was initially apathetic about Pakistan's membership in the British Commonwealth of Nations due to the attitude of other Commonwealth leaders to the Partition of India.
Khan was rushed to a hospital and given a blood transfusion, but he succumbed to his injuries.
Khan was sworn in as the 22nd Prime Minister of Pakistan on 18 August 2018 after his party, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI), won the 2018 election.
Khan's 2011 autobiography, Pakistan: A Personal History, covers his move from cricket into politics and discusses his philanthropic work.
Khan's ability to run the country was put in doubt and great questions were raised by the communists and socialists active in the country.
Khan's administration also built a major network of irrigation canals, high-water dams, and thermal and hydroelectric power stations.
Khan's arrest led to a nationwide protest by his supporters.
Khan's brief period in power is widely regarded as a pivotal factor in the division of Pakistan.
Khan's campaign against the military has not been without its challenges.
Khan's economic policies were soon heavily dependent on United States aid to the country.
Khan's eyes are said to have "sparkled" at the proposal.
Khan's foreign minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto believed the Tashkent Declaration was a "political surrender" which turned a military victory into defeat.
Khan's government authorised the establishment of the Sindh University.
Khan's government oversaw a rapid V-shaped recovery of Pakistan's economy which grew significantly between the years 2018 and 2022.
Khan's premiership oversaw the beginning of the Cold War, in which Khan's foreign policy sided with the United States-led Western Bloc over the Soviet Union-led Eastern Bloc.
Khan's presidency oversaw martial law by suspending the constitution in 1969.
Khan's relation with General Sir Douglas Gracey deteriorated, prompting General Gracey to retire soon after the conflict.
Khan's relations with the military began to deteriorate in 2021 over the appointment of the ISI chief.
Khan's removal sparked major political instability across Pakistan, as his party, the PTI demanded snap elections.
Khan, built the New Laboratories, a plutonium reprocessing plant located in Islamabad.
Khan, on several occasions, used his influence and good offices for the resolution of communal tension.
Khan, surrendered without offering any resistance.
Khan-led PTI has dissolved two of its provincial assemblies (Punjab and KP) triggering elections in 60% of country due on 30 April 2023 and 28 May 2023 respectively.
Khateeb Hussain was in contact with Zafar Gillani, a lawyer and senior member of the TLP prior to the murder, and obtained approval for the act over WhatsApp.
Khattak also inspected hospitals and dismissed alleged corrupt staff and absent staff, often on the spot.
Khattak carried out healthcare reforms such as introducing Health Insurance Scheme, Sehat Sahulat Program for poor people and an 'Insulin for life' fund.
Khidmat-e-Khalq Committee, a social welfare initiative, was founded in 1978 which in 1998 transformed into Khidmat-e-Khalq Foundation (KKF).
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa accounting for 64 percent of the reported casualties (633 fatalities in 2022), followed by 26 percent in Balochistan, 5.8 percent in Sindh and 2.8 percent in Punjab.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa is full of Pashtun nationalist and regionalist parties favoring Afghan tribalism, such as the ANP and PMAP.
King Abdullah said on 26 July that Saudi Arabia would always stand by Pakistan, its leadership and people, after an hour-long meeting with Nawaz at his Riyadh.
Kishwar Zehra is serving as the Chairperson of the Committee on Cabinet Secretariat, whereas Munaza Hassan is the Chairperson of the Committee on Climate Change.
Kissinger met with Huang Hua, China's Permanent Representative to the United Nations, later that evening.
Known as the Charter of Democracy, the document was signed by Nawaz Sharif and Benazir Bhutto in London, and they announced their opposition to Musharraf and Shaukat Aziz.
Kohli, successfully launched a surprise attack on the port of Karachi on the night of 4/5 December 1971 under the codename Trident.
Kulbushan Yadav was allegedly involved in financially supporting terrorists and also confessed to his involvement in unrest in Karachi.
Kulsoom, the wife of Nawaz Sharif, had two sisters and a brother.
Kuwait was also the first country to send aid to isolated mountain villages in Kashmir after the quake of 2005, also offering the largest amount of aid in the aftermath of the quake, US$100 million.
LGBTI people face prosecution by the state.
LOC border clashes between November 2020 and February 2021 resulted in 24 deaths of both military personnel and civilians.
Labaik demanded that the government abandon the change and sack the law minister, claiming that the change weakened the affirmation and conceded ground to Ahmadis.
Labour unions called for strikes against Ayub Khan's administration, and dissatisfaction was widespread in the country's middle class by the end of 1968.
Lack of skills, limited opportunities in the job market, and social, religious and cultural restrictions limit women's chances to compete for resources in the public arena.
Lahore's Jail Superintendent Asad Warraich however said he didn't know of any such release and they had received no order to release him.
Lal, who was the Vice Chief of Air Staff during the conflict, points to the lack of coordination between the IAF and the Indian army.
Lamb described Bhutto at being skilled in using populist strategies in election campaigns.
Large Indian companies such as Infosys offered aid up to $226,000.
Large inflows of foreign aid and investment led to the fastest-growing economy in South Asia.
Large numbers of Kashmiri youth participated in widespread anti India demonstrations, which faced heavy handed reprisals by Indian state forces.
Late in 1989, the MQM—whose party represented mohajir interests—left Bhutto's coalition government.
Later Yahya Khan, as Vice Chief of General Staff, was selected to head of the army's planning board set up by General Ayub Khan to modernize the Pakistan Army in 1954–57.
Later he vehemently talked publicly against the IWT during his campaign against Ayub Khan regime.
Later his eldest son Farooq Abdullah succeeded him as the Chief Minister of the state.
Later in 1976, Maqbool Bhat is arrested on his return to the Valley.
Later in 1977, the Central Government and the ruling Congress Party withdrew its support so that the State Assembly had to be dissolved and mid term elections called.
Later in 1985 through a Presidential Order (P.O.
Later in 2010, TI Pakistan presented a breakdown of the various actors in the judicial system involved in corruption.
Later in March, he was granted bail for a period of six weeks by the Supreme Court to continue pursuing his health treatment.
Later in November 2022, in an interview with the Financial Times, Khan said he no longer "blamed" the United States and "[a]s far as I'm concerned it's over, it's behind me".
Later in September, he urged supporters to burn electricity bills and join civil disobedience.
Later on, Abdul Qayyum Khan was put in place by Jinnah in the Pashtun-dominated province despite him being a Kashmiri.
Later on, Pakistan Navy, under Vice-Admiral Patrick Julius Simpson, also jumped into the conflict as it had applied naval blockades to Balochistan's port.
Later that month, the ECP rejected his nomination papers for the 2024 Pakistani general election on the grounds that he was "convicted by the court of law and has been disqualified".
Later that year, he was promoted to temporary colonel and assumed the command of his own regiment in which he was commissioned to direct operations in the second phase of the Burma Campaign.
Later that year, the Supreme Court ruled in favour of petitioner Asghar Khan, agreed that the election was rigged, and ordered legal action against those responsible.
Later, Hollard's management was dissatisfied with the investment, citing corruption as a major impediment to their investment's success.
Later, Munir Ahmad Khan had him personally approved the budget for the development of the programme.
Later, Wajihuddin was expelled from the party by Imran Khan.
Later, fighting a brief illness, he died in 1974.
Later, in October, 1966, the Parliament was shifted to Dhaka.
Later, the Government agreed to provide equal status to Bengali as a state language of Pakistan, a right later codified in the 1956 constitution.
Later, the ISPR denied any knowledge of the Jinnahpur conspiracy and separatist maps, which were highly publicized in the media prior to the operation's launch.
Later, the government of Pakistan said that this was Musharraf's personal opinion.
Later, the journal was continued by Ghulam Ahmed Pervez, who had contributed many articles in its early editions.
Later, then–Prime Minister of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif disclosed that Pakistan was left with just six days of fuel to sustain itself if a full-scale war had broken out.
Later, this weapons-grade uranium was offered back to the Chinese as the Pakistanis used their own materials.
Latif was a senior commander of Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP).
Latvia maintains an honorary consul in Karachi.
Launching of the rocket made Pakistan the first South Asian country and tenth country in the world to carrying out the launch of the rocket.
Law enforcement authorities do not view domestic violence as a crime and usually refuse to register any cases brought to them.
Law enforcement authorities routinely dismiss domestic violence as private disputes.
Law prescribes their powers and functions.
Lawmakers from the opposition party the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI), criticised the amendments as an effort to weaken the judiciary and called it a "black day" in Pakistan's constitutional history.
Lawyers and citizen's groups, civil activists, and a coalition of political parties were planning to take to the streets in a protest march.
Leaders and constitutional experts of the Islamic political parties, conservative parties, socialists and communist parties were delegated to attend the constitutional convention in 1972.
Leaders of the Congress decided that having loosely tied Muslim-majority provinces as part of a future India was not worth the loss of the powerful government at the centre which they desired.
Lebanon and Pakistan have good relations.
Leftist Senator Raza Rabbani claimed that Nawaz "has always had these rightwing leanings", adding that "the temptation was there in the past to appease his rightwing Islamist constituency".
Leghari installed a civilian caretaker government led by Malik Meraj Khalid while announcing forthcoming elections for February 1997.
Leghari sought the backing of the Army Chief, Karamat, to move against her premiership.
Leghari warned Bhutto that he would dismiss her government unless she introduced measures to curtail corruption and deal with the economic crisis.
Legislation passed in 1852 allowed foreigners residing in territory governed by the East India Company to naturalise as British subjects by application to the government.
Legislative powers vested in the Parliament, which consisted of the president and the National Assembly with 300 Members divided equally between East and West Pakistan.
Legislators from different parties challenged this with the Supreme Court, infuriating Nawaz.
Less than 4,000 Kashmiri Hindus remain in the valley, reportedly living with daily threats of violence and terrorism.
Less than a year after its establishment, PTI participated in the 1997 general elections.
Liaquat Ali Khan did the groundbreaking work for the Foreign Policy of Pakistan while taking initiatives towards the formulation of the constitution.
Liaquat Ali Khan rejected Nehru's charge of warmongering propaganda.
Liaquat Ali Khan sent a Punjab politician Mian Iftikharuddin to explore the possibility of organising a revolt in Kashmir.
Liaquat Ali Khan[a] (1 October 1895 – 16 October 1951) was a Pakistani lawyer, politician and statesman who served as the first prime minister of Pakistan from 1947 until his assassination in 1951.
Liaquat H. Merchant, Jinnah's grandnephew, writes that "the Quaid was not a Shia; he was also not a Sunni, he was simply a Muslim".
Libya's Colonel Gaddafi dispatched his Prime Minister Abdus Salam Jalloud on an urgent mission to Pakistan for talks with the military establishment to secure Bhutto's release.
Libyan dictator Gaddafi also personally directed a strongly worded letter to Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi accusing her of aggression against Pakistan, which endeared him to all Pakistanis.
Like Form 45, it is issued by the presiding officer of a polling station at the end of a vote count.
Like Mirza, Ayub advocated for greater centralization of power, and his ruling style was more American than British.
Like her father, Benazir Bhutto used rhetoric to oppose India and campaign in the international community against the Indian nuclear program.
Like in other parts of South Asia, the custom of dowry is practiced in Pakistan, and conflicts related to it often result in violence, even dowry deaths.
Like other areas in the Himalayas, Kargil has a continental climate.
Like previous visit by Premier Li, the airplane was escorted by 8 JF-17 Thunder jets.
Like protected persons, locally naturalised British subjects were still entitled to imperial protection when travelling outside of the Empire.
Like those who have served a sentence for blasphemy, those who are acquitted of blasphemy usually go into hiding or leave Pakistan.
Like transgender people in many countries, they are sometimes the subjects of ridicule, abuse, and violence.
Likewise, Indian music and film are very popular in Pakistan.
Likewise, just 12% of Pakistanis had a favorable view of the United States during the same year.
Little negotiation had been done since the previous October because of the elections in India.
Local Muslims also told Richard Symonds, a British Quaker social worker, that the army fired on crowds, and burnt houses and villages indiscriminately.
Local government is protected by the constitution in Articles 32 and 140-A, and each province also has its own local-government-enabling legislation and ministries responsible for implementation.
Local leaders in Gilgit formed a provisional government (Aburi Hakoomat), naming Raja Shah Rais Khan as the president and Mirza Hassan Khan as the commander-in-chief.
Local transgender advocacy groups have indicated they will appeal.
Local transgender groups have said they plan to lodge appeals with the Shariat Appellate Bench of the Supreme Court.
Logistics companies will operate a large storage and transportation system for agrarian produce, as stated by the plan in Dawn.
Lord Mountbatten is alleged to have influenced the Radcliffe Commission to draw the lines in India's favour.
Lord Mountbatten, Governor General of India, addressed the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan.
Low approval ratings for the U.S. were also recorded in other countries across the Greater Middle East, including Egypt (19%), Turkey (15%), and Jordan (12%).
Lower oil prices, higher remittances and increased consumer spending pushed growth toward a seven-year high of 4.3 percent in FY2014–15.
Lt Gen Irshad Ahmed Khan commanded two infantry and one armored division into battle.
Lt. Col. Joshi regrouped in the Mashkoh valley on 1 July and the Battle began on 4 July.
Lt. K Nachiketa, which it attributed to an engine failure, and a MiG-21 fighter piloted by Sqn Ldr Ajay Ahuja which was shot down by the Pakistani army, both over Batalik sector.
Lt. Sattar Alvi flying a MiG-21 shot down an Israeli Air Force Mirage flown by Captain M. Lutz, and was honoured by the Syrian government.
M. A. Hannan, an Awami League leader from Chittagong, is said to have made the first announcement of the declaration of independence over the radio on 26 March 1971.
MPS Bajwa and 41 Field regiment was given the primary responsibility of artillery operations.
MQM and its leader Altaf Hussain decided to boycott elections in 2018 due to military intervention in political affairs.
MQM boycotted the subsequent 1993 general elections claiming organized military intimidation but participated in provincial elections.
MQM has also been threatened by Pakistani Taliban.
MQM has also brought its chairman and vice chairman in the municipal committee of fourth largest city of Sindh Mirpurkhas.
MQM perceived this operation as an attempt to wipe out the party altogether.
MQM secured 27 seats in provincial assembly, in comparison to its political rival PPP which won 56 seats.
MQM set fire factory to take extorted money from owners.
MQM supported independent candidate Asif Baig defeated the candidate of MQM-Pakistan by a healthy margin.
MQM terminated Farooq Sattar's party membership for party rules violations, from where he then formed his own MQM faction.
MQM took part in local bodies by election from Union Committee 46 Hyderabad which was vacated by the death of counselor as independent candidate.
MQM-P which is a separate party now would instead contest for elections using traditional MQM symbol, the kite.
MUF received victory in only 4 of the contested 43 electoral constituencies despite its high vote share of 31 per cent (this means that its official vote in the Valley was larger than one-third).
MUF's election manifesto stressed the need to solve all outstanding issues according to the Simla agreement, work for Islamic unity and against political interference from the centre.
MV Swat, a ship of the Pakistan Navy carrying ammunition and soldiers, was harbored in Chittagong Port, but the Bengali workers and sailors at the port refused to unload the ship.
MWD provided a credit line of Rs 48 millions to FWBL to finance small-scale credit schemes for disadvantaged women.
Maalik (Urdu مالک) is a 2016 Pakistani Political, thriller film made by Ashir Azeem.
Maalik is a 2016 Pakistani political thriller film made by Ashir Azeem.
MacDonald desired a conference of Indian and British leaders in London to discuss India's future, a course of action supported by Jinnah.
Madani and Iqbal both appreciated this point and they never advocated the creation of an absolute 'Islamic State'.
Mahabat Khan acceded to Pakistan on 15 August 1947.
Maharaja Hari Singh made a plea to India for assistance, and help was offered, but it was subject to his signing of an Instrument of Accession to India.
Maharaja Hari Singh of Jammu and Kashmir, along with his prime minister Ram Chandra Kak, decided not to accede to either dominion.
Mahmood Khan was made Chief Minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa by PTI.
Mahmood led the JUI against Ayub Khan's modernization policies.
Main feature of this set was the introduction of the presidential system and more consolidated powers to the President.
Maintaining close relations with China is also a central part of Pakistan's foreign policy.
Maj Gen Mailk was then replaced by Maj Gen Yahya Khan by C-in-C Gen Muhammad Musa who authorised Maj Gen Khan to advance deeper into Indian Territory.
Maj Gen Mohinder Puri granted this request.
Maj. Gen. Iskander Mirza, as the last Governor General of Pakistan, elected indirectly as the state's interim president.
Major Ziaur Rahman was requested to provide security for the station and also read the Declaration on 27 March 1971.
Major funding was made available for military acquisitions and procurement towards conventional weaponry for conventional defence.
Major ground attacks were concentrated on the western border by the Pakistan Army but the Indian Army was successful in penetrating into Pakistani soil.
Major heavy mechanical, chemical, and electrical engineering industries were immediately nationalised by Bhutto, and all of the industries came under direct control of government.
Major reforms were carried out by successive governments in Pakistan after the war.
Major-General Pervez Musharraf worked closely with Bhutto and her government in formulating an Israel strategy.
Major-General Rao Farman wrote in his table diary: "Green land of East Pakistan will be painted red," which has been interpreted to mean that he planned to massacre Bengalis.
Majority of media in Pakistan is privately owned.
Malala Yousafzai, as a teenage education activist, was shot in the face in her hometown Mingora at the age of 15.
Male education is at a steady rate of 71.2%.
Malik maintained that soldiers were not "Mujaheddin" but active-duty serving officers and soldiers of the Pakistan Army.
Malik said he would tell the truth about the war and how the army failed, but later decided not to because he was afraid of being banned.
Man cannot realise the "Self" outside of society.
Management of major crisis situations in the country and coordination of activities of the various Ministries in such situations are the functions of the Cabinet Division.
Many Barelvis and their ulema, though not all Barelvis and Barelvi ulema, supported the creation of Pakistan.
Many Bengali Muslims strongly objected to the Islamist paradigm the Pakistani state imposed.
Many Hindu Sindhis migrated to India in 1947, making the country home to a sizeable Sindhi community.
Many Indians and Pakistanis in the diaspora, especially in the United States, intermarry, as there are large cultural similarities between the two countries respectively.
Many Kashmiri militant groups also maintain their headquarters in Pakistan-administered Kashmir, which is cited as further proof by the Indian government.
Many Muslim women supported the Indian National Congress Quit India Movement.
Many PTI leaders were forced to have their relatives run in the elections due to an alleged crackdown, including Parvez Elahi's wife Qaisara Elahi running and Usman Dar's mother Rehana Dar running.
Many Pakistani commentators said that the Ayub Khan administration was indecisive during "Operation Grand Slam".
Many Pakistanis were greatly offended by this and called this event an act of "social and cultural terrorism against the country".
Many Tajiks have immigrated to Pakistan, notably in the city of Ishkoman where they have integrated into the local population.
Many accounts of Iqbal's frustration toward Congress leadership were also pivotal in providing a vision for the two-nation theory.
Many activists, including Humaira Alim, who had been vocal about women's rights and education, fear death or imprisonment if returned.
Many also believed that Bhutto wanted power in the West even at the expense of the separation of the East.
Many analysts (mainly Indian and American) believe that the ISI provides support to militant groups, though others think these allegations remain unsubstantiated.
Many analysts say Pakistan's preoccupation with jihadis within its own borders explains the relative calm.
Many argued that Sharif was favoured in this process because he was a political protégé of the military dictator at the helm.
Many atheists in Pakistan have been lynched and imprisoned over unsubstantiated allegations of blasphemy.
Many cases of honour killings have been reported against women who marry against their family's wishes, who seek divorce or who have been raped.
Many civil bureaucrats and military officers loyal to Bhutto were replaced by new faces, leaving Bhutto with new advisers and collaborators.
Many civilians see little distinction between aid agencies, the military operations, and "western interests"; ‘you bomb our villages and then build hospitals’.
Many critics have called this Iqbal's finest poetic work.
Many decisions have been taken but a growing implementation gap is becoming visible.
Many donors see the conflict as an opportunity for more comprehensive engagement in an effort to promote stability in the region, to promote a legitimate government, and curtail transnational threats.
Many experts viewed Khan's visit to United States as 'reset in the bilateral relationship between the two countries'.
Many girls are still married off into a child marriage, and many complications with this can occur as childbirth from a child can cause complications with the baby and mother.
Many have reported struggling to afford visa renewals.
Many human-rights activists in Pakistan have protested against forced disappearances and kidnappings.
Many humanitarian organisations thus avoid being too visible and do not mark their aid with their logos.
Many in Pakistan had expected a victory over the Indian military based on Pakistani official reports on the war, but were dismayed by the turn of events and questioned the eventual retreat.
Many in Pakistan saw him as a man who sacrificed his life to preserve the parliamentary system of government.
Many innocent and unarmed have been killed in Dhaka city and other places of Bangladesh.
Many judges who were appointed were relatives of other Judges or Government officials.
Many mass graves have been discovered in Bangladesh.
Many media activists felt that the new regulations were opaque and had been subject to interpretation by the courts which would have provided media practitioners with clearer guidelines.
Many middle-class women wear a two-piece burqa which is usually black in color but sometimes navy blue or dark red.
Many neutral parties to the dispute have noted that the UN resolution on Kashmir is no longer relevant.
Many of Bhutto's loyal officers were ordered to attend the first course.
Many of Fiji's large Muslim population maintain family links with Pakistan.
Many of Musharraf's close allies had reservations about his concessions to Bhutto.
Many of Nawaz's cabinet ministers and his constituents were divided during the court proceedings and remained neutral.
Many of Suriname Hindustani Muslim speak Urdu, and maintain cultural link in Pakistan.
Many of its most influential members, sponsors, and financiers came to defect to the new group that was sympathetic to Pervez Musharraf.
Many of the Muslims from British Guiana even took Pakistani citizenship after the Independence of Pakistan in 1947 and migrated to Pakistan.
Many of these illegal immigrants had reportedly possessed voter IDs and ration cards, sparking a major controversy and debate as non-citizens do not have right to vote.
Many of those who have been taken in are looked after by political and religious groups providing assistance in return for membership or support.
Many on the "wrong side" of the lines fled or were murdered, or murdered others, hoping to make facts on the ground which would reverse the commission's verdict.
Many operators started satellite and/or cable TV outlets without any supervision by the authorities.
Many people accused of blasphemy have been murdered before their trials were over, and renowned figures who opposed the blasphemy law have been assassinated.
Many people consider this outcome to be a setback for Pakistan.
Many policies in Pakistan aim to achieve equality in education between girls and boys and to reduce the gender gap in the educational system.
Many political observers were taken in complete surprise since the dismissal of four-star rank general had never happened before in country's short history.
Many political pundits believed the tests to be an indication of the escalating stakes in the scenario in South Asia.
Many posts were also heavily mined, with India later stating to have recovered more than 8,000 anti-personnel mines according to an ICBL report.
Many public figures and officials suspected Benazir Bhutto's involvement in the murder, although there was no proof.
Many public-sector universities and schools were built during his era.
Many terrorists belonging to various terrorist groups were killed.
Many viewed Mirza's use of this power as a deliberate manipulation of the constitution for his own ends.
Many were concerned that Mujib was permitting Indian interference in the country's internal matters and many in the Bangladeshi army resented his attachment with India.
Many women do not report these attacks out of fear of getting attacked again or to protect the groups of people committing the attacks.
Many women have become renowned teachers, professors, scientists and educationists who have inspired generations.
Many years later, Mountbatten stated that if he had known Jinnah was so physically ill, he would have stalled, hoping Jinnah's death would avert partition.
Marked ballot papers were also found on the streets in Karachi and Lahore.
Marketing research company Gallup Pakistan, estimated there were 86 million TV viewers in Pakistan in 2009.
Marriage to the holy book is a common custom in Sindh, especially among the feudal lords to avoid transfer of property out of family hands at the time of marriage of their daughter or sister.
Married Hindu women have been forcibly kidnapped and married to Muslims, and are left without legal recourse due to inability to prove their previous marriage.
Martial law was declared due to the breakdown of civil-military relations.
Maryam Nawaz is now eligible to run for election.
Maryam is married to politician Muhammad Safdar Awan.
Massive population exchanges occurred between the two newly formed states in the months immediately following the partition.
Massive protests and strikes ensued against Ayub Khan, who responded by outlawing the political gatherings in the country.
Matiullah Jan, a prominent journalist in Pakistan, who highlights the Pakistani Armies atrocities, was picked up from streets in Islamabad.
Matters such as defence, external relations and communications would be handled by a central authority.
Maulana, who is believed to be hiding in Karachi, later became the leader of Jaish-e-Mohammed, an organisation which has carried out several terrorist acts against Indian security forces in Kashmir.
Maulvi Farooq challenged the contention that there was no longer a dispute on Kashmir.
Maulvi Tamizuddin, President of the Assembly, challenged the dissolution in the Sindh Chief Court, and won the case.
May Allah Almighty help and guide me (A'meen).
May Allah Almighty help and guide me (Ameen).
May Allah aid us in our fight for freedom.
Mazhar Abbas argued that the lack of party-based elections amounted to inherent pre-poll rigging, deepening societal divisions along feudal and caste lines.
McMahon adds that they were "right" since a Muslim majority made a vote to join Pakistan the "most likely outcome" and postponing the plebiscite would serve India's interests.
Meanwhile, Bhutto tried to maintain a balance with the United States, but such attempts were rebuffed.
Meanwhile, Mirpur was captured by the tribal forces on 25 November 1947 with the help of Pakistan's PAVO Cavalry.
Meanwhile, Nehru's pledge of a referendum to people of Kashmir did not come into action.
Meanwhile, PTI alleges that the incidents of 9 May were a false flag operation designed by the Pakistani establishment to disintegrate PTI and frame Imran Khan.
Meanwhile, Pakistan army chief general Ashfaq Parvez Kayani visited Moscow from October 4 for three-day official visit.
Meanwhile, Pakistan cut off essential supplies to the state, such as petrol, sugar and salt.
Meanwhile, Russia played a major role in ending the war but remained hostile towards Pakistan.
Meanwhile, Sardar Ibrahim had escaped to West Punjab, along with dozens of rebels, and established a base in Murree.
Meanwhile, in Pakistan administered Azad Jammu and Kashmir, the 1955 Poonch uprising begins in February 1955 against the governments dismissal of Sardar Ibrahim Khan.
Meanwhile, in Pakistan administered Gilgit Baltistan, the state sponsored 1988 Gilgit Massacre led by Osama bin Laden and other extremist groups take place.
Meanwhile, the conservative Pakistan Muslim League, led by its President Abdul Qayyum Khan, was threatening to engage in civil disobedience.
Meanwhile, the military was unaware of these developments, and Bhutto increased his pressure on Rahman to reach a decision.
Measures taken in the first few months of 1972 set a new framework for the revival of the economy.
Media advocacy groups like Nai, Supporting Open Media in Afghanistan (Nai SOMA), condemned detention and deportation of Afghan journalists and media workers.
Media coverage of abuses by both the Pakistan government security forces and militant groups is hindered by an ongoing climate of fear.
Mehmet Akif Ersoy, considered the national poet of Turkey for having composed its national anthem, was directly influenced by Iqbal.
Meir reportedly sought diplomatic ties with India in exchange, which were finally established in 1992 under P. V. Narasimha Rao.
Member of Parliament and adviser to the Prime Minister, Ahmed Ebrahim Haroon Jaffer, represented Pakistan at the World Constituent Assembly in Interlaken, Switzerland in August 1968.
Members are elected for five-year terms.
Members are elected through the first-past-the-post system under universal adult suffrage, representing electoral districts known as National Assembly constituencies.
Members hold their seats for five years or until the house is dissolved by the President on the advice of the Prime Minister.
Members of the Cabinet are appointed by the president on the advice of the prime minister.
Members of the Manika family also denied the rumour.
Members of the National Assembly are elected by the people in competitive multi-party elections, to be held at most five years apart on universal adult franchise.
Members of the National Assembly are elected by universal adult suffrage (formerly twenty-one years of age and older but the seventeenth amendment changed it to eighteen years of age.).
Members of the Senate are elected according to Article 59 of the Constitution.
Members of the Union Council, including the Union Administrator and Vice Union Administrator, are elected through direct elections based on adult franchise and a joint electorate.
Members, referred to as 'senators', sit for six year-terms, with half of the house up for election every three years.
Menon, Secretary in Patel's Ministry of States, admitted in an interview in 1964 that India had been absolutely dishonest on the issue of plebiscite.
Metropolitan areas like Lahore and Karachi have seen many gay men, mostly from the middle and upper classes socializing at queer parties.
Mian Aslam Iqbal alleged that dowry for his daughter's wedding was seized by Punjab Police; and Ali Nawaz Awan alleged that his home was demolished.
Mian Muhammad Nawaz Sharif took oath as prime minister of Pakistan and leader of the house on 17 February 1997.
Mian Sir Abdur Rashid, Chief Justice of Pakistan, administered the oath of office from him.
Militants from Jamiat Ulema-e-Pakistan began to attack the minorities in West-Pakistan, which later slipped to India.
Military Intelligence actively monitored politicians and political gatherings and the Intelligence Bureau taped politicians' telephone conversations.
Military Police arrested the Iraqi Ambassador, the military attaché, and Iraq's diplomatic staff.
Military cooperation between the two sides has continued to increase significantly, with joint projects producing armaments ranging from fighter jets to guided missile frigates.
Military coups in Pakistan began in 1958 when military army chief Muhammad Ayub Khan overthrew and exiled president Iskandar Ali Mirza.
Military lawyers and civilian law experts saw this as unconstitutional and a violation of military justice code.
Military officials from Musharraf's Joint Staff Headquarters (JS HQ) met with regional corps commanders three times in late September in anticipation of a possible coup.
Military operations in Pakistan's tribal areas have caused the dispersal of Pashtuns away from their homes.
Military police took control of the state broadcaster, radio and the entire critical communications infrastructure, and announced that Sharif had been dismissed.
Military presidents include General Ayub Khan in the 1960s, General Yahya Khan, General Zia ul Haq in the 1980s, and General Pervez Musharraf from 1999.
Military-technical cooperation between Russia and Pakistan is under development.
Millions of Afghan refugees poured into the country, fleeing the Soviet occupation and atrocities.
Minister Asif supported the demand(s) for Article 6 proceedings against violators of the Constitution of Pakistan.
Minor children of a father who gave up citizenship also cease to be citizens, unless they remained living in Pakistan at the time of their father's renunciation.
Minority members of the Pakistan National Assembly have alleged that Hindus were being hounded and humiliated to force them to leave Pakistan.
Mir Zafar ullah Jamali was elected leader of the house on 21 November 2002.
Mir clarified that the remarks were made "in jest" during an informal, off-the-record briefing.
Mirza also proceeded to outlaw all political parties.
Mirza had never had a high opinion of politicians.
Mirza lived in the United Kingdom for the remainder of his life and was buried in Iran in 1969.
Mirza took full advantage of the weaknesses of politicians and played them against each other, first offsetting the influence of the Muslim League by creating the Republican Party.
Mirza unilaterally made Ayub Khan Prime Minister and appointed a new cabinet of technocrats for him.
Mirza was appointed and served as the political agent of Odisha and North West Frontier Province from 1945 until 1946.
Mirza was educated at the University of Bombay before attending the Royal Military College, Sandhurst.
Mirza was married twice: his first marriage took place on 24 November 1922, when he married an Iranian woman, Rifaat Begum (1907–23 March 1967).
Mirza was the eldest child of Nawab Fateh Ali Mirza and Dilshad Begum (1875–1925).
Mirza was the first Indian graduate of the military college, and gained his commission in the British Indian Army as a 2nd Lt. on 16 July 1920.
Mirza's mother belonged to the Bombay-based Tyabji family of Cambay and was the niece of Congress president Badruddin Tyabji of the Sulaymani Bohra community.
Mirza's political ideology reflected secularism, and an image of internationalism, strongly advocating religious separation in state matters.
Misconduct of judges is highly intolerable as is mentioned in the constitution.
Mishra concluded, "like all populist politicians, he appears to offer something to everyone.
Misinformation on the war was spread in the Islamic Middle Eastern nations by Japanese agents.
Miss Fatima Jinnah, sister of Mohammed Ali Jinnah, was an instrumental figure in the Pakistan movement.
Misuse of authority: officials may exploit their positions for personal gain, favoring certain individuals or businesses.
Mobilizing support for their Six Points manifesto the Awami League secured electoral support in East Pakistan.
Mobs attacked five Hindu temples in Karachi and set fire to 25 temples in towns across the province of Sindh.
Modern fiction writers such as Rizwana Syed Ali and Bano Qudisa have also highlighted gender issues.
Modi also attended the wedding ceremony of Nawaz's granddaughter.
Modi and Nawaz held a brief meeting at Raiwind Palace.
Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, the Shah of Iran, sent his personal plane to London to bring President Mirza's body to Tehran, where he was given a state funeral.
Mohammed Daoud Khan became President of Afghanistan in 1973.
Mohtarma Benizar Bhutto administered the oath as Prime Minister of Pakistan on 19 October 1993.
Months after the war, Munir Ahmad Khan, a nuclear engineer at IAEA's Reactor Division, met Bhutto where he notified Bhutto with rapid development of Indian nuclear programme.
More FIRs were registered against over 350 people.
More draconian additions were made to the PPO during the reign of General Zia-Ul-Haq in the 1980s.
More information on the expulsion was revealed to Indian media after 17 May when a YouTuber was arrested.
More recent statistics provided by the UNICEF – shows that female education amongst 15- to 24-year-olds has increased substantially to 61.5% – an increase of 45%.
More recently Saba Ismail has represented women's rights at the United Nations.
More recently, China has moved forward with an agreement to cooperate in improving the Pakistani civil nuclear power sector.
More recently, an international newspaper published the Panama papers, naming Sharif's sons as among people who created offshore companies.
More than 150 servicemen of the armies of the two countries took part in the exercises.
More than 2,000 civil servants were dismissed on charges of corruption and those who protested against the policies.
More than 40 unarmed protesters were killed.
More than 50% of men including those from rural areas agree that both husband and wife should work for a better living.
More than 600 have pellet injuries to the face.
More than 96% of Pakistan's 220 million citizens (2022) are Muslims.
More women agree with this statement as compared to men.
Moreover, Iqbal is not restricted to any specific segment of the world community, but he is for all humanity.
Moreover, Trump also urged India for its role in the war.
Moreover, according to the Government of Pakistan, the direct and indirect economic costs of terrorism from 2000 to 2010 total $68 billion.
Moreover, coming under intense international pressure, Islamabad was compelled to take action against the militants' training camps on its territory.
Moreover, he gave tasks to the Ministry of Religion to prepare reports and recommendations for steps taken toward Islamization.
Moreover, he has won the most Player of the Series awards in Test cricket for Pakistan and ranks fourth overall in Test history.
Moreover, the army had failed to fulfill its promises of fighting until the last man.
Moreover, there have been instances of human rights abuses in Azad Kashmir, including but not limited to political repressions and forced disappearances.
Moreover, while the army had initially denied the involvement of its troops in the intrusion, two soldiers were awarded the Nishan-E-Haider (Pakistan's highest military honour).
Moscow had asked Islamabad to import “one oil cargo” as a test case.
Moscow promptly extended an invitation to him to visit the Soviet Union.
Mosque leaders and students refused to surrender and fired at police from inside the mosque building.
Mosque released statement in loud speaker asked Hindus to leave Kashmir without their women.
Mossack Fonseca had declined to do business with Bhutto's first company, similarly named Petrofine FZC, established in Sharjah, United Arab Emirates in 2000.
Most Bengalis supported this move, although some Islamists and Biharis opposed it and sided with the Pakistan Army instead.
Most UN member nations were quick to recognize Bangladesh within months of its independence.
Most did so prior to independence, but the holdouts contributed to what have become lasting divisions between the two nations.
Most founding members had been educated in Britain, and were content with the minimal reform efforts being made by the government.
Most khawaja saras are deemed to have been direct cultural descendants of the court eunuchs of the Mughal era.
Most members of the League's executive council remained loyal to Jinnah, attending the League meeting in December 1927 and January 1928 which confirmed him as the League's permanent president.
Most of PTI's central leadership was elected.
Most of Pakistan's laws are secular in nature, some of which were inherited from the United Kingdom's colonial rule of modern-day Pakistan before 1947.
Most of his wealth originates from his businesses in steel construction.
Most of the attacks occurred in the Karachi and Peshawar areas.
Most of the battles were fought by opposing infantry and armoured units, with substantial backing from air forces, and naval operations.
Most of the country's politicians only became aware of the coup the next morning; only U.S.
Most of the leaders were Indian National Congress right hands before the partition of India.
Most of the new laws that were anti-democratic and were not intended to promote public activism but to increase his control of the public.
Most of the party's members belong to the Barelvi movement, a revivalist movement within Sunni Islam.
Most of the pre-British invasions into India (the Muslim conquests having been the most impactful) took place from the northwest through the modern-day territory of Pakistan.
Most of the private media in Pakistan flourished under the Musharraf regime.
Most of their training camps were near the border area and operated with assistance from India.
Most of them tend to settle in the state of Rajasthan in India.
Most of these assessments agree that India had the upper hand over Pakistan when the ceasefire was declared.
Most of these regiments served in Pakistan's two armoured divisions, the 1st and 6th Armoured divisions – the latter being in the process of formation.
Most of those in the administration had little political experience.
Most people agree that the idea of a mobile, hard-hitting Pakistan Army was badly hurt during the war because important breakthroughs were not made.
Most print media are privately owned, but the government controls the Associated Press of Pakistan, one of the major news agencies.
Most violence takes place in the largest province of Punjab and the country's commercial and financial capital, Karachi.
Most were captured from Dacca University and private homes.
Most women wear very baggy trousers however more westernised girls have made it less baggy and tight.
Motilal Nehru presented his Nehru Report to counter British charges.
Mountbatten had hoped that the post-independence arrangements would include a common defence force, but Jinnah saw it as essential that a sovereign state should have its own forces.
Mountbatten had offered to serve as Governor-general of both India and Pakistan but Jinnah refused this offer.
Mountbatten later confessed that he would most probably have sabotaged the creation of Pakistan had he known that Jinnah was dying of tuberculosis.
Mountbatten noted that it was untenable given his constitutional position and India did not accept Jinnah's demand of removing Sheikh Abdullah.
Mountbatten took office as Viceroy on 24 March 1947, two days after his arrival in India.
Mountbatten was not favourably impressed with Jinnah, repeatedly expressing frustration to his staff about Jinnah's insistence on Pakistan in the face of all argument.
Mountbatten's original plan was to stay on as the joint Governor General for both of the new dominions till June 1948.
Mr. Gohar Ayub Khan was elected as the Speaker of the National Assembly and he took oath on 4 November 1990.
Mr. Illahi Bukhsh Soomro took oath of the office of the Speaker National Assembly on 16 February 1997.
Mr. Miraj Khalid was elected as the Speaker of the National Assembly on 3 December 1988.
Mr. Muhammad Khan Junejo, was nominated as the Prime Minister of Pakistan by the president (General Zia-ul-Haq).
Mr. Shaukat Aziz was elected the leader of the house on 27 August 2004 and was administered oath of the Prime Minister of Pakistan on 28 August 2004.
Mr. Yasin Joyia was the first General Manager of (NTM), Which was shut down very soon by PTV bureaucratic conspiracies.
Mrs. Naseem Wali Khan was the first woman to have been elected from the North-West Frontier Province.
Ms Bhutto gave full statements of facts of complaints.
Mubashir Hassan, an engineering professor at UET Lahore, played a pivotal role in the success and rise of Bhutto.
Much of early Afghan cricket was built on the back of returned refugees who had learned the sport in Pakistan.
Much of the war was fought by the countries' land forces in Kashmir and along the border between India and Pakistan.
Mufti Mahmood was sworn in as NWFP chief minister.
Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the future founder of Pakistan, met with Imam Du.
Muhammad Ali Jinnah[a] (born Mahomedali Jinnahbhai;[b] 25 December 1876 – 11 September 1948) was a barrister, politician, and the founder of Pakistan.
Muhammad Iqbal's The Call of the Marching Bell (بانگِ درا, bang-e-dara), his first collection of Urdu poetry, was published in 1924.
Muhammad Ishaq Dar is the current Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Muhammad Jinnah's daughter, Dina, was educated in England and India.
Muhammad Nawaz Sharif was elected as Prime Minister of Pakistan and took oath on 11 November 1990.
Mujib informed Bhutto that he would make this decision once he arrived in Bangladesh.
Mujib was arrested and imprisoned in West Pakistan.
Mujib was arrested that night at about 1:30 am (as per Radio Pakistan's news on 29 March) and taken to West Pakistan.
Mukhtaran Mai a victim of gang rape has become a prominent activist for women's rights in Pakistan.
Multi-county frameworks are suitable for a very suburbanised system like in the US.
Multilateral negotiations were not ruled out, but they were conditional upon both sides agreeing to them.
Multiple forced disappearances have been reported in Balochistan.
Munir Ahmad Khan quickly notified Bhutto of what had happened.
Munir Ahmad Khan, an expert in Plutonium technology, had also laid the foundation and groundbreaking work for the Plutonium reprocessing technology.
Munir Khan briefed him on the status of the Indian nuclear programme and the options for Pakistan to develop its own nuclear capability.
Munir's early schooling was done in Nigeria and she then studied English Literature, Psychology and Mass Communication.
Muqrin expressed hope that Nawaz would continue with the agreement to not return for 10 years, but said "these little things do not affect relations".
Murree is near the border with India, and during the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965 Bhutto and the other pupils underwent air-raid practices.
Murtaza Bhutto was assassinated in a police shootout with the Sindh Police in 1996, with many pointing the finger of blame at his sister and her husband.
Murtaza focused much of his criticism on Bhutto's husband Zardari, whom he blamed of being responsible for government corruption.
Murtaza joined Bhutto at Harvard a year later.
Murtaza maintained that it was he, rather than his sister, who was the standard-bearer for their father's championing of the downtrodden.
Murtaza went on to Christ Church, Oxford, his father's alma mater, for a three-year course to read for an MLit degree.
Musharraf accepted the resignation of Jamali and asked his close colleague Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain to appoint a new prime minister in place.
Musharraf agreed to invite Britain's Scotland Yard to investigate the assassination, although its eventual report proved inconclusive.
Musharraf agreed to release Zardari in November 2004 as a symbol of good will; following his release, Zardari travelled to New York for medical treatment.
Musharraf allied with the United States against the Taliban in Afghanistan after 9/11.
Musharraf also consolidated power around himself; in June 2001 he appointed himself to the Presidency, holding this position alongside his positions as chief executive and chief of the army staff.
Musharraf also denied Mukhtaran Mai, a Pakistani rape victim, the right to travel abroad, until pressured by US State Department.
Musharraf called for a three-day mourning period after Bhutto's assassination on 27 December 2007.
Musharraf called for nationwide political elections in the country after accepting the ruling of the Supreme Court of Pakistan.
Musharraf challenged the verdict, and on 13 January 2020, the Lahore High Court annulled the death sentence against Musharraf, ruling that the special court that held the trial was unconstitutional.
Musharraf characterised his arrest as "politically motivated" and his legal team has declared their intention to fight the charges in the Supreme Court.
Musharraf declared a three-day period of mourning, while PPP supporters rioted in various parts of Pakistan, leading to at least 50 deaths.
Musharraf delayed his departure for the Beijing Olympics, by a day.
Musharraf described this move as a major factor in the détente that occurred between the two countries shortly after, and his first official visit to India.
Musharraf died at age 79 in Dubai in 2023 after a prolonged case of amyloidosis.
Musharraf disbanded the cultural policies of the previous Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, and quickly adopted Benazir Bhutto's cultural policies after disbanding Indian channels in the country.
Musharraf escaped from court with the aid of his security personnel, and went to his farm-house mansion.
Musharraf escaped with only a cracked windshield on his car.
Musharraf had dismissed 60 judges and Chief Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry under the state of emergency in March 2007, in a failed bid to remain in power.
Musharraf had technically been on bail since his return to the country, and the court now declared his bail ended.
Musharraf himself had survived several assassination attempts by Islamist militants, and warned Bhutto that she too would be a target.
Musharraf honoured King Abdullah with the Nishan-e-Pakistan.
Musharraf instituted prohibitions on foreign students' access to studying Islam within Pakistan, an effort that began as an outright ban but was later reduced to restrictions on obtaining visas.
Musharraf later assumed control of the government as chief executive.
Musharraf launched his own political party, the All Pakistan Muslim League, in June 2010.
Musharraf left for a weekend trip to take part in Sri Lanka's Army's 50th-anniversary celebrations.
Musharraf married Sehba, who is from Karachi, on 28 December 1968.
Musharraf met with President Rafiq Tarar on 13 October to deliberate on legitimising the coup.
Musharraf nominated Shaukat Aziz, the minister for finance and a former employee of Citibank and head of Citibank Private Banking as the new prime minister.
Musharraf published his autobiography—In the Line of Fire: A Memoir—in 2006.
Musharraf quickly pardoned Abdul Qadeer Khan in exchange for cooperation and issued confinement orders against Khan that limited Khan's movement.
Musharraf received 658 out of 1170 votes, a 56% majority, but many opposition and Islamic members of parliament walked out to protest the vote.
Musharraf received the King Abdul-Aziz Medallion in 2007.
Musharraf regarded Aziz as his right hand and preferable choice for the office of Prime minister.
Musharraf reneged on his agreement with the MMA and pro-Musharraf legislators in the Parliament passed a bill allowing Musharraf to keep both offices.
Musharraf resigned from the military on 28 November 2007, appointing Kayani as Chief of the Army Staff.
Musharraf responded by dispatching 4,500 soldiers, supported by tanks and helicopters, to guard the gas field.
Musharraf responded with a mobilisation of the Pakistani military, deploying 300,000 personnel to the Line of Control.
Musharraf stated that he was ready to give up the United Nations' resolutions regarding Kashmir.
Musharraf succeeded to pass the XVII amendment, which grants powers to dissolve the parliament, with approval required from the Supreme Court.
Musharraf survived multiple assassination attempts and alleged plots.
Musharraf vowed to return to Pakistan, but he never did.
Musharraf was a leading strategist behind the Kargil War.
Musharraf was annoyed at her arrival, having requested that she return only after the election.
Musharraf was born on 11 August 1943 to an Urdu-speaking family in Delhi, British India, the son of Syed Musharrafuddin and his wife Begum Zarin Musharraf (c. 1920–2021).
Musharraf was described to have had a "love–hate relationship" with India during his presidency and throughout his life.
Musharraf was eventually forced out of office under the threat of impeachment, after years of political protests by lawyers, civilians and other political parties in Pakistan.
Musharraf was four years old when India achieved independence and Pakistan was created as the homeland for India's Muslims.
Musharraf was indicted on 20 August 2013 for Bhutto's assassination in 2007.
Musharraf was promoted to lieutenant colonel in 1974; and to colonel in 1978.
Musharraf was strongly favoured by the Prime Minister's colleagues: a straight officer with democratic views.
Musharraf was the first military president to accept the rulings of the Supreme Court and holding free and fair elections in 2002, part of his vision to return democratic rule to the country.
Musharraf was the second of three children, all boys.
Musharraf was the second son of his parents and had two brothers—Javed and Naved.
Musharraf was third-in-line and was well regarded by the general public and the armed forces.
Musharraf went to Saudi Arabia on 20 November 2007, the first time he left Pakistan since implementing the emergency rule.
Musharraf wrote in his memoirs that, without the intervention of Fahd, Sharif would have been executed.
Musharraf's family moved to Ankara in 1949, when his father became part of a diplomatic deputation from Pakistan to Turkey.
Musharraf's first foreign visit was to Saudi Arabia on 26 October where he met with King Fahd.
Musharraf's long-standing ally, the MQM, published criticism of Musharraf over his handling of Abdul Qadeer Khan.
Musharraf's moves sparked protests among Pakistani lawyers.
Musharraf, facing likely impeachment, resigned as president in August.
Musharraf, in his Hindi version of his memoirs, titled "Agnipath", differs from all the estimates stating that 357 troops were killed with a further 665 wounded.
Musharraf, who was in Sri Lanka, attempted to return on a PIA commercial flight.
Muslim reformers such as Syed Ahmad Khan tried to bring education to women, limit polygamy, and empower women in other ways through education.
Muslims in the Jammu region were Punjabi-speaking and felt closer affinity to Punjabi Muslims than with the Valley Kashmiris.
Muslims of Bombay elected Jinnah, though then absent in London, as their representative to the Central Legislative Assembly in October 1934.
Muslims should strengthen Jinnah's hands.
Muslims were not enthusiastic about calls for democratic institutions in British India, as they constituted a quarter to a third of the population, outnumbered by the Hindus.
Muñoz concurred, describing Bhutto as "a woman of contradictions".
Muñoz described Bhutto as "one of Pakistan's most important political figures, a respected world leader, and the leading stateswoman in the Islamic world".
My 28-year-old nephew, Arif Hussain, was hacked to death with an axe.
My own family has not been spared either.
Médecins Sans Frontières conducted a research survey in 2005 that found 11.6% of the interviewees who took part had been victims of sexual abuse since 1989.
N. Gopalaswami Ayyangar, the Indian Central Cabinet minister in charge of Kashmir affairs, came down to broker peace, which was resented by Sheikh Abdullah.
Naela Chohan is a Pakistani diplomat and feminist artist.
Nagappa but himself succumbed to Sniper and RPG fire on 7 July.
Naimatullah Khan who was a member of Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan and former Mayor of Karachi.
Naoroji had become the first British Member of Parliament of Indian extraction shortly before Jinnah's arrival, triumphing with a majority of three votes in Finsbury Central.
Naseem Hameed achieved the fastest woman sprinter record in South Asia following the 2010 South Asian games; she gained widespread popularity for the remarkable feat.
Nasreen Jalil was the only woman member elected as a Senator for the term from 1997 to 2000.
National Assembly members serve for the parliamentary term, which is five years, unless they die or resign sooner, or unless the National Assembly is dissolved.
National Assembly of Pakistan completed its Constitutional tenure on 15 November 2007.
National Assembly of Pakistan expressed confidence in the leadership of President General Pervez Musharraf through the resolution on 1 January 2004.
Nationally, PTI became the third-largest party and the largest in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, as well as the second-largest in Punjab.
Nationally, each province and territory has a provisional committee, made up of elected committee members as well as ex-officio committee members who elect its presidents.
Naturalisation in Britain was achieved through individual Acts of Parliament until 1844, when a more streamlined administrative process was introduced.
Naval Commander Syed Mohammad Ahsan, who served as Deputy Director Naval Intelligence of Pakistan and helped formulate ISI procedure, undertook and managed the recruitment and expansion of the ISI.
Naval operations did not play a prominent role in the war of 1965.
Naved is an anaesthetist who has lived in Chicago since completing his residency training at Loyola University Medical Center in 1979.
Naveed said he acted alone, targeting him because he believed Khan was misleading the people.
Navy NHQ staffers and commanders of the Pakistan Navy knew very well that unlike the 1965 war, the Navy was ill-prepared for the naval conflict with India.
Nawaz Sharif allowed Benazir Bhutto to hold the office of Leader of the Opposition, though the PML-N held control of the state parliament.
Nawaz Sharif and PML (N) alleged that the military aligned with the judiciary affected the election outcome in his favour.
Nawaz Sharif attempted to play cricket in 1973 but was dismissed for a duck on the first ball he faced while playing for the Railways team against Pakistan International Airlines.
Nawaz Sharif became prime minister on May 28.
Nawaz Sharif became the 12th Prime Minister of Pakistan on 6 November 1990, succeeding Benazir Bhutto, securing a majority in the National Assembly after the general election.
Nawaz Sharif filed his nomination papers for two seats in the forthcoming elections whilst Benazir Bhutto filed for three seats including one of the reserved seats for women.
Nawaz Sharif had won the favour and support of President Zia-ul-Haq, who approved his appointment as Chief Minister of Punjab Province in 1985.
Nawaz Sharif has maintained that the operation was conducted without his knowledge.
Nawaz Sharif invited him to join his party, offering second-in-command position and 30 National Assembly seats; he declined.
Nawaz Sharif is accused of using corruption money to grow his assets in his business ventures and Ittefaq Group.
Nawaz Sharif was elected President of the Pakistan Muslim League (N) in 2011.
Nawaz Sharif's government was involved in a constitutional crisis in 1997 when he clashed with the judiciary and President Farooq Leghari.
Nawaz Sharif's ordering the nuclear tests was met with great hostility and ire in the United States after President Clinton placing the economic embargo on Pakistan.
Nawaz accused Musharraf of ordering anti-terror operations that had left the country "drowned in blood".
Nawaz also announced Pakistan would aid China it its fight against the East Turkestan Islamic Movement.
Nawaz also announced a ₨500 million endowment fund for the promotion of art and literary activities in Pakistan.
Nawaz also approved feasibility studies for numerous other projects.
Nawaz also established the Professor Abdus Salam Fellowship to fully fund five Pakistani doctoral students in physics.
Nawaz also had close ties with Lieutenant-General (retired) Hamid Gul, the Director-General of ISI.
Nawaz also launched the Prime Minister's Youth Programme, providing a ₨20 billion fund for interest-free loans, skills development and provision of laptop computers.
Nawaz also met Muqrin bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, while Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud referred to Pakistan as his second home.
Nawaz also reconstituted the Cabinet Committee on National Security (C2NS), with military representation in the political body.
Nawaz and Maryam were also fined £2 million and £8 million, respectively.
Nawaz and Murtaza Bhutto formed the Nawaz-Bhutto axis and worked to undermine Benazir Bhutto's government, tapping an anti-corruption wave in Pakistan.
Nawaz and Zardari agreed on forming a coalition, and Nawaz announced that he and his party gave the PPP the right to choose the next Prime Minister.
Nawaz and the PML-N decided to participate in the parliamentary elections after 33 opposition groups, including Bhutto's PPP, met in Lahore but failed to reach a joint position.
Nawaz attended 26 May 2014 first oath of office ceremony of Narendra Modi as prime minister, the first time that a prime minister from one state attended the inauguration of their counterpart.
Nawaz attended the 2014 Nuclear Security Summit, and stated that Pakistan was giving nuclear security the highest importance.
Nawaz built Pakistan's first major motorway, the M2 Motorway (3MM), called the Autobahn of South Asia.
Nawaz built ties with the senior army generals who sponsored his government.
Nawaz called for the boycott of the January 2008 elections because he believed the poll would not be fair, given a state of emergency imposed by Musharraf.
Nawaz called president-elect Donald Trump on 1 December 2016 to congratulate him.
Nawaz campaigned on a promise to end loadshedding, construct motorways and Peshawar–Karachi high-speed rail.
Nawaz challenged former Chief of Army Staff General Mirza Aslam Beg over the 1991 Gulf War.
Nawaz claimed that Musharraf was responsible for the crisis in the nation.
Nawaz claimed to have support from the majority of the parties in Parliament.
Nawaz condemned Bhutto's assassination and called it the "gloomiest day in Pakistan's history".
Nawaz continued the simultaneous Islamization and conservatism of Pakistan society, a policy begun by Zia.
Nawaz continued to meddle with the stock exchange markets with devastating effects.
Nawaz entered into politics in 1981, when he was appointed by President Zia as the minister of finance for the province of Punjab.
Nawaz extended membership of the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO) to all Central Asian countries to unite them into a Muslim bloc.
Nawaz faced considerable financial challenges when his family's steel business was affected by the Nationalisation Policies implemented by former Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
Nawaz faced difficulty working with the PPP and the Mutahidda Qaumi Movement (MQM), a potent force in Karachi.
Nawaz failed to gain foreign support against India for the incident, which newly appointed Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Abdul Aziz Mirza viewed as a lack of support for the navy in wartime.
Nawaz forced President Farooq Leghari to resign, and appointed Wasim Sajjad as acting president, then ousted Alishah to end the constitutional crisis.
Nawaz further lost the confidence of the Marines for failing to defend the navy at the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in September.
Nawaz gave an interview to Dawn News on 12 May 2018 in which he said that non-state actors from Pakistan were involved in the Mumbai terrorist attacks in 2008.
Nawaz greeted Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on 15 November 2014 and pledged his support to the Afghan president over his attempt to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table.
Nawaz had become more politically relevant after the return to Pakistan of Benazir Bhutto, who had also been exiled.
Nawaz had campaigned on a conservative platform and after assuming office announced his economic policy under the National Economic Reconstruction Programme (NERP).
Nawaz had campaigned on a conservative platform and vowed to reduce government corruption.
Nawaz had developed serious issues of authority with conservative President Ghulam Ishaq Khan, who had raised Nawaz to prominence during the Zia dictatorship.
Nawaz had formed an alliance with Altaf Hussain of the MQM which fell apart following the assassination of Hakim Said.
Nawaz included environmentalism in his government platform, and established the Pakistan Environmental Protection Agency in 1997.
Nawaz initiated several large-scale projects to stimulate the economy, such as the Ghazi-Barotha Hydropower Project.
Nawaz introduced an economy based on privatisation and economic liberalisation, notably for banks and industries.
Nawaz invested in Saudi Arabia and other oil-rich Arab countries to rebuild his steel empire.
Nawaz is said to enjoy exceptionally close ties with senior members of the Saudi royal family.
Nawaz launched 'peaceful neighbourhood' initiative to improve Pakistan's ties with India, Afghanistan, Iran and China.
Nawaz led the Zia-loyalist Fida Group against the Prime Minister's Junejo's Pakistan Muslim League (J).
Nawaz loosened foreign exchange restrictions and opened Karachi Stock Exchange to foreign capital, but the government remained short of funds for investments.
Nawaz made the nuclear weapons and energy programme one of his top priorities.
Nawaz manipulated the ranks of senior judges, deposing two judges close to Alishah.
Nawaz married Kulsoom Nawaz in April 1971.
Nawaz offered his full co-operation as Leader of the Opposition but soon the PPP and PML-N held parliament locked in dispute.
Nawaz ordered the Sindh Police Force to arrest Musharraf.
Nawaz organised strikes throughout Pakistan in September and October 1994.
Nawaz paid an official visit to Washington, D.C. from 20 to 23 October 2013.
Nawaz passed the controversial Anti-Terrorist Act on 17 August 1997, which established Anti-Terrorism Courts.
Nawaz promised closer counter-terrorism and military co-operation but no troops for the immediate future.
Nawaz promoted General Pervez Musharraf to replace Karamat, also making Musharraf Chairman of the Joint Chiefs despite his lack of seniority.
Nawaz raised the issue of Kashmir in international forums and worked toward a peaceful transfer of power in Afghanistan to curb the rampant trading of illicit drugs and weapons across the border.
Nawaz refused to accept this act and raised a challenge at the Supreme Court of Pakistan.
Nawaz returned to Pakistan five days later.
Nawaz said that the PML-N would support the government without participating in it.
Nawaz scrambled the Pakistan Air Force and had nuclear bombs prepared for deployment.
Nawaz stated that he wanted to take his oath as prime minister on 28 May, the fifteenth anniversary of the Chagai-I nuclear tests.
Nawaz stated that ₨260 billion will be collected in annual revenue from the licenses, while the technology would create millions of jobs in the service sector.
Nawaz strengthened Pakistan's relations with the Muslim world and Europe.
Nawaz stressed the need for operation Zarb-e-Qalam to fight societal extremism and intolerance through the power of "writers, poets and intellectuals".
Nawaz studied business at Government College and law at the University of Punjab.
Nawaz suffered a major loss of political support from the co-operatives societies scandal.
Nawaz then removed the MQM from parliament and assumed control of Karachi while MQM was forced underground.
Nawaz travelled to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, where he was taken to a residence managed and controlled by the Saudi government, and provided a Saudi loan to establish a steel mill.
Nawaz underwent open heart surgery in May 2016 in London.
Nawaz urged North Korea to make peace and improve its ties with South Korea; causing a division in Pakistan–North Korean relations.
Nawaz visited London on 30 April 2014 and met David Cameron and other officials, and delivered a keynote address at the Pakistan Investment Conference.
Nawaz was also tried for tax evasion on the purchase of a helicopter worth US$1 million.
Nawaz was born in Lahore, Punjab, on 25 December 1949.
Nawaz was initially hesitant of the economic impact of nuclear testing, and observed the international reaction to India's tests, where an embargo had no economic effect.
Nawaz was sentenced to 11 years in prison, Maryam to eight years, and Capt.
Nawaz was sworn as prime minister on 17 February.
Nawaz was sworn in for an unprecedented third term as prime minister on 7 June 2013.
Nawaz was taken to Adiala Jail for trial by a military judge.
Nawaz went to Saint Anthony High School.
Nawaz won much public support for his uncompromising stand, and the coalition successfully forced Musharraf's resignation from the presidency.
Nawaz's Fourteenth Amendment consolidated his power by preventing legislators and lawmakers from dissenting or voting against their own parties, and prohibited judicial appeal for offenders.
Nawaz's administration issued a five-year $500-million Eurobond in 2015 at 8.25% interest and in September 2016, it also raised $1 billion by floating Sukuk (Islamic bonds) at 5.5%.
Nawaz's advisor Miftah Ismail described him as "a very religious guy", adding however "he is perfectly okay with other people not being religious".
Nawaz's daughter Maryam Nawaz and her husband Safdar Awan were given prison sentences of seven years and one year, respectively.
Nawaz's defence team blamed the military for providing inadequate protection.
Nawaz's government criticised Iraq for invading the fellow Muslim country, which strained Pakistan's relationships with Iraq.
Nawaz's government declared that the Hindu festivals Diwali and Holi, and the Christian festival of Easter, were officially public holidays.
Nawaz's government hanged Mumtaz Qadri on 29 February 2016.
Nawaz's mindset was to remove the Chairman Joint Chiefs and the Chief of Army Staff first, then depose the other armed forces chiefs who had destroyed his credibility.
Nawaz's nuclear policy was considered less aggressive towards India with its focus on public usage through nuclear power and medicine, viewed as a continuation of the US Atoms for Peace programme.
Nawaz's party had joined a coalition with the PPP, led by its new leader Asif Ali Zardari, but the alliance was strained by differences.
Nawaz's political prestige reached its peak when the country went nuclear.
Nawaz's popularity peaked in May 1998 after conducting the country's first nuclear weapons tests in response to tests by India.
Nawaz's third term moved from social conservatism to social centrism.
Nawaz, in a March 2017 address at Jamia Naeemia, urged Islamic scholars to spread the true teachings of Islam and take a firm stand against those who are causing disunity among Muslims.
Nawaz, with a large contingent of SUVs, began leading a march to Islamabad but ended the march in Gujranwala.
Nearly 90,000 Pakistani soldiers were taken prisoners of war and the result was the emergence of the new nation of Bangladesh, thus ending 24 years of turbulent union between the two wings.
Needing 13 additional seats to form a majority, Sharif held talks with elected independent candidates to form a coalition.
Negotiating with a power that had dismembered the country was a significant challenge for Bhutto, but he smoothly convinced India to return the territory and the POWs to Pakistan.
Negotiation and talks were brutally failed, and Bhutto was famously heard saying "break the legs" if any member of [People's Party] attend the National Assembly inaugural session.
Negotiations that fall apart between Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, Mujibur Rehman, and Yahya Khan that prompted to liberation movement in the East Pakistan.
Negotiations with the Taliban collapsed after the execution of 23 Frontier Corps by the Taliban on 17 February 2014, and relations worsened with the Taliban's 2014 Jinnah International Airport attack.
Nehru and other Indian leaders were afraid since 1947 that the "temporary" accession to India might act as an irritant to the bulk of the Muslims of Kashmir.
Nehru did not accept the second and third components of this peace plan.
Nehru stated in 1960, "the truth is that we were tired men and we were getting on in years ...
Nehru suggested that the plebiscite could be held in all regions of the state and the state could be partitioned on the basis of the results.
Nehru wrote to Gandhi on 22 August that up to then, twice as many Muslims had been killed in East Punjab than Hindus and Sikhs in West Punjab.
Nehru's misgivings about the US-Pakistan pact made him hostile to a plebiscite.
Nehru's withdrawal from the plebiscite option came as a major blow to all concerned.
Neither of the states was able to resolve this issue amicably and it only added fuel to an already charged environment.
Neither side acknowledged this role, however, until lawyers' movement leader Aitezaz Ahsan publicly admitted Kayani's role.
Neither side revealed its battle plans to the other.
Nepal and Pakistan are signatories to the South Asia Free Trade Agreement (SAFTA) and members of the South Asian Economic Union.
Nepotism and patronage: jobs, promotions, and contracts often go to those with political connections rather than merit.
Nevertheless, General Zia-ul-Haq initiated a training program with officers from the Special Air Service (SAS).
Nevertheless, Iqbal worked constantly to encourage Muslim leaders and masses to support Jinnah and the League.
Nevertheless, Jinnah worked to bring the Congress and League together.
Nevertheless, as Governor-General of Pakistan, he would refuse to accept a large salary, fixing it at 1 rupee per month.
Nevertheless, military and political clashes over Kashmir in the early years of independence appear to have been more about ideology and sovereignty rather than over the sharing of water resources.
Nevertheless, the Congress enjoyed considerable Muslim support up to about 1937.
Nevertheless, the chairman was appointed, offices now exist and general administration work continues.
Nevertheless, the military takeover in 1977 reversed the changes.
Nevertheless, the steps already taken under these Acts shall remain valid.
Nevertheless, the steps already taken under these acts shall remain valid.
New Delhi achieved its basic goal of thwarting Pakistan's attempt to seize Kashmir by force.
New Zealand was party to the Commonwealth Heads of Government decision to readmit Pakistan to the Councils of the Commonwealth after the restoration of civilian rule in May 2008.
New liberal media laws broke the state's monopoly on the electronic media.
Newly re-elected, Sharif moved quickly to curtail the powers of the presidency and judiciary.
News Broadcasters & Digital Association and Indian National Congress leaders, whom Singh represented, criticised Modi for relying on reports from a Pakistani journalist.
Newspapers and magazines are published in 11 languages; most in Urdu and Sindhi, but English-language publications are numerous.
Newspapers were scrutinised; critical or undesired sections of an article censored.
Newspapers, television, and radio are regulated by the Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority (PEMRA), which occasionally halts broadcasts and closes media outlets.
Next day, Pakistan condemned Trump's decision to bomb Iranian nuclear facilities, stating that the action violated international law.
Next month, he reached a Test bowling rating of 922,[i] the highest International Cricket Council (ICC) rating since World War I, and third in all-time ICC Test bowling.
Niazi being the last war prisoner to be handed over to Pakistan.
Niazi dedicated the first issue of the journal to Iqbal.
Niazi, the Commander of the Pakistan Eastern Command, at the Ramna Race Course in Dacca at 16:31Hrs IST on 16 December 1971.
Nigar Ahmad, women's rights activist, co-founder of Aurat (women's) Foundation, one of the oldest women's organisation in the country.
Nisar Ali Khan and Shahbaz Sharif recommended Musharraf and Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif personally promoted Musharraf to the rank of four-star general to replace Karamat.
Nixon also expressed a wish to fix a time limit with Yahya for political accommodation in East Pakistan.
Nixon asserted that India could count on US endeavors to ease the crisis within a short time.
Nixon gave permission for Jordan to send ten F-104s and promised to provide replacements.
Nixon himself stated, "Biafra stirred up a few Catholics.
Nixon issued a statement blaming Pakistan for starting the conflict and blaming India for escalating it.
Nixon said, "Threaten to move forces or move them, Henry, that's what they must do now".
Nixon sent a message to the Soviet Union urging the Russians to stop backing India.
Nixon termed India a "Soviet stooge" before ordering the Enterprise to lead the Task Force-74.
Nixon urged Yahya Khan multiple times to exercise restraint.
No Prime Minister of Pakistan has ever completed their full length tenure.
No agreement could be reached between the two countries on the process of demilitarisation.
No agreement was reached and the plebiscite never took place.
No autopsy was conducted, and the body was swiftly transported to Chaklala Air Base.
No civil rights legislation exists to prohibit public or private sector discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.
No court of law can be in its right mind to award such a punishment.
No further changes were carried out to oppose the 1956 document.
No inquiry was ultimately conducted, and Gulalai did not publicly release the alleged messages.
No judicial execution for blasphemy has ever occurred in Pakistan, but 20 of those charged were murdered.
No known executions for homosexual activity have occurred.
No law repugnant to Islam shall be enacted and the present laws shall also be Islamised.
No massive protests were held by the party; its leaders remained silent and remained supportive towards the military action against Nawaz Sharif.
No nationalised units were privatised and few economic regulations were reviewed.
No official announcements of such tests were made by the Pakistani Government.
No other name appears in the Constitution, and this is the name that appears on money, in treaties, and in legal cases.
No prime minister of Pakistan has yet served their full five-year term.
No response was issued by Bhutto, but she soon associated with the term.
No woman was elected on the reserved seat due to the sunset clause in the Constitution where this provision had expired after three election cycles.
No woman was elected to the Senate for the term from 1985 to 1988.
Non-white immigration into the UK was systemically discouraged, but strong economic conditions in Britain following the Second World War attracted an unprecedented wave of colonial migration.
None of the loans of millions of rupees were paid back to the banks.
Nonetheless, religious violence and intimidation, as well as periodic charges of blasphemy, have occurred.
Nonetheless, tensions began to grow in East Bengal.
Nonetheless, the economic situation worsened when the state currency lost a currency war with India.
Nonetheless, the failure of Pakistan to attain its military objectives during the conflict resulted in a political liability for Ayub.
Norway and Pakistan have strengthened ties.
Norway has an embassy in Islamabad and an honorary consulate in Lahore, whereas Pakistan has an embassy in Oslo.
Notably, Malik Meraj Khalid and other colleagues, resigned from Bhutto and left for the Soviet Union.
Notably, it played a major role in rescuing trapped American soldiers who had requested the assistance of a quick reaction force during Operation Gothic Serpent in Somalia.
Notably, two army pilots from the Aviation Corps were honored for a daring rescue operation.
Note: Azad Kashmir is federally administered and is a "Local authority".
Note: Tehreek-e-Insaf, Jamaat-e-Islami, Jamiat Ulema-e-Pakistan, Tehrik-e-Jafaria Pakistan and Jamiat Ahle Hadith Pashtunkhwa Milli Awami Party did not participate.
Now none but Jinnah is capable of leading the Muslims.
Now, many women in Pakistan don't practice Purdah, which is opposed by many religious scholars.
Now, none but Jinnah is capable of leading the Muslims.
Nuclear weapons expert David Albright of the Institute for Science and International Security agreed that Khan's activities were government-sanctioned.
Number of Pakistani women in 'STEM' is low due to one of the highest gender gaps in STEM fields.
Numerous analysts state that the war ended in a stalemate, with neither side obtaining a clear victory.
Numerous women were tortured, raped, and killed during the war; the exact numbers are not known and are debated.
Nurtured on conspiracy theories, they were all conditioned to act in a manner that neglected agreeable solutions and promoted violent judgments.
Nurul Amin of the Muslim League had the shortest term, at 13 days.
Nurul Amin's crushing defeat to the United Front alliance effectively eliminates Pakistan Muslim League from the political landscape of the then East Pakistan.
Nusrat continued to support Murtaza, damaging her relationship with Bhutto; mother and daughter increasingly criticised one another.
Obama also sought $3.1 billion aid for Pakistan to defeat Al Qaeda for 2010.
Obscene literature, a category the government defines broadly, is subject to seizure.
Observers and scholars interpret this action as a tilt towards accession to India.
Observers noted that when Bhutto was removed from power in July 1977, thousands of Pakistanis cheered and celebrated.
Observers state that Abdullah became upset, as he felt, his "absolute power" was being compromised in India.
Observers such as Nusrat Javed have noted the contrast between the nonpartisan nature of the 1985 elections and the specific political obstacles encountered in the 2024 elections.
October 2021 — joint Russian-Pakistani exercise "Friendship-2021", at the Molkino training ground in the Krasnodar Territory.
Of Sindhi, Persian and Kurdish parentage, Bhutto was born in Karachi to the politically-significant aristocratic Bhutto family.
Of ten (10) Parliamentary Committees, only three (3) are headed by women MNAs.
Of the 14 justices that rendered a verdict related to taking an oath under the PCO, 12 had taken the oath themselves.
Of the 8 judges, 3 are required to be Ulema who are well versed in Islamic law.
Of the eight judges, three are required to be Islamic scholars/Ulema qualified in Islamic law.
Of the eight judges, three are required to be Ulema who are well versed in Islamic law.
Of the respondents who were asked to identify which parties orchestrated the corrupt acts, 61% reported hospital staff, 25% reported doctors, and 13% reported nurses.
Of these 11 began their term in 2015 while the remaining 9 began their term in 2018.
Of these aid and funds arrangement, Pakistan was obligated to spend these monetary funds by purchasing American goods, food, and other services.
Of these, 266 are filled by direct elections.
Of these, her younger sister Sanam, or "Sunny", remained close to her throughout her life.
Of thirty (30) Standing Committees of the Senate, six (6) are headed by women.
Offices, schools and factories were required to offer prayer space.
Official figures held that eight suicide bombings took place in 2006 and 44 in 2007.
Officially a federal Islamic republic, Pakistan has had a long history of alternating periods of electoral democracy and authoritarian military government.
Omar called Babar, who was an ethnic Pashtun, a traitor for saying that "all problems would be resolved" should the Durrand Line be recognised by the Taliban government.
On 1 April 2015, Modi made his first visit to Pakistan in a surprise stopover in Lahore to meet Nawaz on his birthday.
On 1 December 1999, a five-member bench of the Supreme Court was constituted to hear these appeals and as lawyers of each side to present cases of their clients.
On 1 January 2004, Musharraf had won a confidence vote in the Electoral College of Pakistan, consisting of both houses of Parliament and the four provincial assemblies.
On 1 January 2016, the Planning Commission began phasing out the Annual Confidential Report (ACRs) with the key performance indicators (KPIs) to determine the promotions of civil servants.
On 1 June 1954, Mirza took over the Government of East Bengal from Chief Minister A. K. Fazlul Huq as part of the governor's rule that dismissed the United Front.
On 1 May 1951 Karan Singh then Head of state of Jammu and Kashmir issued a proclamation directing the formation of this assembly.
On 1 May 1995, she used harsh language in her public warning to India that "continuation of [Indian] nuclear program would have terrible consequences".
On 1 October 1949, CCP chairman Mao Zedong announced the founding of the People's Republic of China.
On 1 October, they withdrew death threats and offered him protection for the rally.
On 10 April, he sent the cipher to the Supreme Court, despite legal warnings about potential breaches of constitutional oaths and the Official Secrets Act.
On 10 August, Bhutto turned over the post of president to Fazal Ilahi Chaudhry, assuming the office of prime minister instead.
On 10 December 1971, Nixon instructed Kissinger to ask the Chinese to move some forces toward the frontier with India.
On 10 December 2000, Musharraf unexpectedly issued a pardon to Nawaz Sharif to be flown to Saudi Arabia.
On 10 December 2015, during the Heart of Asia conference, Pakistan and India announced that they were resuming dialogue on outstanding issues, ending a two-year stalemate.
On 10 December, Nixon ordered Task Force 74, led by the aircraft carrier USS Enterprise, to the Bay of Bengal.
On 10 February 2011, India agreed to resume talks with Pakistan which were suspended after 26/11 Mumbai Attacks.
On 10 July 2017, JIT submitted a 275-page report to the Supreme Court of Pakistan.
On 10 October, a B-57 Canberra on loan to the PAF was damaged by three SA-2 missiles fired from the IAF base at Ambala.
On 10 September, Munabao fell into Pakistani hands, and efforts to capture the strategic point did not succeed.
On 11 April 2022, Shehbaz Sharif was elected as the country's 23rd Prime Minister.
On 11 April, in the Akhnoor area, Indian soldiers intercepted militants attempting to infiltrate from Pakistan, leading to the death of an army officer.
On 11 August 1947 Muhammad Ali Jinnah was elected unanimously as the president of the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan and the National Flag was formally approved by the Assembly.
On 11 August 1947, Quaid-i-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah was elected unanimously as the President of the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan and the National Flag was formally approved by the Assembly.
On 11 August, the Maharaja dismissed his prime minister Ram Chandra Kak, who had advocated independence.
On 11 August, the government summoned the national assembly.
On 11 February 2011 the Anti Terrorism Court, issued an arrest warrant for Musharraf and charged him with conspiracy to commit murder of Benazir Bhutto.
On 11 June 2008, the Gora Prai airstrike, on the Afghan-Pakistani border, killed 10 members of the paramilitary Frontier Corps.
On 11 March 1983, PAEC led by Munir Ahmad Khan carried out the first successful cold test of a working nuclear device near at the Kirana Hills under codename Kirana-I.
On 11 May 2011, India released a list of 50 "Most Wanted Fugitives" hiding in Pakistan.
On 11 May the Supreme Court of Pakistan deemed the arrest of Imran Khan as unlawful and ordered the Pakistani authorities to release him.
On 11 November 2014, Nawaz visited Berlin where he met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
On 12 April 2021, Khadim Hussain Rizvi's son, Saad Hussain Rizvi was arrested by police while he was coming back from a funeral prayer prior to a planned protest by the party on 20 April 2021.
On 12 April 2022, PTI submitted a motion of no-confidence against their own Azad Kashmir prime minister who was then replaced.
On 12 August 1947, a resolution was approved regarding officially addressing Jinnah as Quaid-i-Azam.
On 12 August 1948, the Babrra massacre in Charsadda occurred, resulting in the death of 400 people aligned with the Khudai Khidmatgar movement.
On 12 August 1955, he invited Muhammad Ali, the Finance Minister, to take over the government as a prime minister.
On 12 December, with Pakistan facing imminent defeat, the United States requested that the Security Council be reconvened.
On 12 January 2011, Prime Minister of Pakistan Yousuf Raza Gilani once again said that there would be no amendments to the blasphemy law.
On 12 June 2014 Sindh High Court allowed him to travel to seek medical attention abroad.
On 12 March 2007, lawyers started a campaign called Judicial Activism across Pakistan and began boycotting all court procedures in protest against the suspension.
On 12 May 2000 the Supreme Court ordered the Government to hold general elections by 12 October 2002.
On 12 May 2000, the Supreme Court asked Musharraf to hold national elections by 12 October 2002.
On 12 May 2000, the Supreme Court of Pakistan courted by Chief Justice Irshad Hasan finally legalized the coup but ordered to hold a nationwide election to restore the writ of the government.
On 12 May 2014, Nawaz met Iranian President Hassan Rouhani amid tensions over the February kidnapping of five Iranian soldiers by extremists who took them into Pakistan.
On 12 May, he received protective bail, which barred re-arrest on the same charges for two weeks.
On 12 May, the estimate reported by the DGMO to Gen Malik was "some militants" but by 15 May, the estimate had risen to 250-300.
On 12 October 1999, General Musharraf staged a bloodless coup d'état, ousting Nawaz Sharif.
On 12 October 1999, Nawaz attempted to remove Musharraf for military failures and replace him with General Ziauddin Butt.
On 12 October, an Ilyushin-76 cargo plane ferried across seven truckloads (about 82 tons) of army medicines, 15,000 blankets and 50 tents and returned to New Delhi.
On 12 September, the Prime Minister held a meeting with Mian Iftikharuddin, Colonel Akbar Khan and another Punjab politician Sardar Shaukat Hayat Khan.
On 13 December, Indian and Mukti Bahini forces attacked the city of Shiromoni.
On 13 January 2013, a poll in seven countries was managed by the Washington Post, to see whether the people of those seven countries prefer democratic government or one with a "strong" leader.
On 13 July, his marriage case conviction was overturned, but he remained in prison after bail was cancelled in a separate May 9 riots case.
On 13 May 2008, the PML-N ministers resigned from the government due to a disagreement related to the reinstatement of the judges.
On 13 May 2013, Parvez Khattak was appointed as the Chief Minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
On 13 May 2018, during an interview with newspaper Dawn, Sharif questioned Pakistan's inaction in preventing the 2008 Mumbai attacks, which was perpetrated by Pakistani terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba.
On 13 May, India reportedly declared Md.
On 13 October, General Ayub Khan assigned Lt. General Wajid Ali Khan Burki the task of improving the efficiency of hospitals and health agencies.
On 14 April 2021, the party was banned, which came after violent protests that caused the deaths of two policemen and left 340 injured, in retaliation to the arrest of the new ameer.
On 14 August 1947 (27th of Ramadan in 1366 of the Islamic Calendar) Pakistan gained independence.
On 14 August 1947, the Transfer of Power took place.
On 14 August 2014, Imran Khan led a rally of supporters from Lahore to Islamabad, demanding Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's resignation and investigation into alleged electoral fraud.
On 14 August 2014, he led a rally from Lahore to Islamabad, demanding Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's resignation and an investigation into alleged electoral fraud.
On 14 August, Pakistan became independent; Jinnah led the celebrations in Karachi.
On 14 August, Thapa had to surrender Skardu to the Pakistani Army and raiders after a year long siege.
On 14 May, Leader of the Opposition Benazir Bhutto and MQM called for nuclear tests, followed by calls from the public.
On 14 October, General Musharraf, acting as the country's Chief Executive, issued a controversial provisional order that suspended the Constitution of Pakistan.
On 14 October, India dispatched the second consignment of relief material to Pakistan, by train through the Wagah Border.
On 14 September 2007, Deputy Information Minister Tariq Azim stated that Bhutto will not be deported, but must face corruption charges against her.
On 15 April 2016, the government announced an investigation by an inquiry commission of all Pakistanis named in the documents.
On 15 August 1947, the Quaid-i-Azam was sworn in as the first Governor General of Pakistan.
On 15 February 1954 the assembly members who were present cast a unanimous vote ratifying the state's accession to India.
On 15 February 1954, under the leadership of Bakshi Mohammad, the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir ratified the state's accession to India.
On 15 January 1952, students staged a demonstration against the hoisting of the state flag alongside the Indian Union flag.
On 15 July 1951 the Pakistani Prime Minister complained that the bulk of the Indian Army was concentrated on the Indo-Pakistan border.
On 15 October, Musharraf ended emerging hopes of a quick transition to democracy after he declared a state of emergency, suspended the Constitution and assumed power as Chief Executive.
On 16 December 1971, Lt. Gen Amir Abdullah Khan Niazi, Chief Martial Law Administrator of East Pakistan and Commander of Pakistan Army forces in East Pakistan signed the Instrument of Surrender.
On 16 December 1971, Pakistan ultimately called for unilateral ceasefire and surrendered its entire four-tier military to the Indian Army – hence ending the Indo-Pakistani war of 1971.
On 16 February 2023, the Government of Pakistan had raised the price of petrol in adherence to the wishes of the International Monetary Fund.
On 16 February, in a press conference, PML-N spokeswoman Marriyum Aurangzeb stated that all Form 45s produced on social media as proof of fraud allegations were fake.
On 16 July 1921, he was promoted to lieutenant and was assigned to command a platoon on 30 December 1921.
On 16 May 1995, the couple married in a brief two-minute Islamic Nikah ceremony in Paris.
On 16 May 2015, the Pakistani army launched an operation to save the life of an injured Afghan soldier on the Afghanistan side of the border.
On 16 November 1999, Ordinance XIX was passed which later came to be known as the National Accountability Bureau Ordinance.
On 16 October 1951, Khan was shot twice in the chest while he was addressing a gathering of 100,000 at Company Bagh (Company Gardens), Rawalpindi.
On 16 October 1951, Khan, the mover of the Objective Resolution, was assassinated and Khawaja Nazimuddin took over as the Prime Minister on 17 October 1951.
On 16 October 2024, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar met Pakistan's Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif to discuss topics at the SCO Summit dinner in Islamabad.
On 16 October 2024, university officials disqualified Khan from the race based on established exclusion criteria, accepting 38 of over 40 applicants.
On 17 April 1972 an Interim Constitution was adopted by the National Assembly, which provided for a Presidential form of Government.
On 17 April 2002, a woman by the name Zafran Bibi, who was 26 at the time, was sentenced to death by stoning in Pakistan.
On 17 December 2019, Musharraf was handed the death sentence for treason by a three-member bench of a special court in Pakistan.
On 17 December 2019, a special court declared him a traitor and sentenced him in absentia to death for abrogating and suspending the constitution in November 2007.
On 17 December, India's 51 Para brigade launched a successful but costly attack on a sand dune occupied by an intruding Pakistani platoon, which cost the Indian unit 21 killed and 60 wounded.
On 17 January 2025, he was sentenced to 14 years' imprisonment by an accountability court in the Al-Qadir Trust case.
On 17 July 2007, Pakistani police detained 39 people in relation to the attempted assassination of Musharraf.
On 17 June 13 JnK Rifles was tasked with capturing points 5140.
On 17 March 2020, Khan addressed the nation for the first time regarding COVID-19 in Pakistan.
On 17 November 1956, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was adopted by the Assembly and it came into full effect on 26 January 1957.
On 17 October, he gave his second national address and established a seven-member military-civilian council to govern the country.
On 17 September 2007, Bhutto accused Musharraf's allies of pushing Pakistan to crisis by refusal to restore democracy and share power.
On 18 August 2008, Musharraf announced his resignation.
On 18 August 2018, Imran Khan was sworn in as the country's 22nd prime minister.
On 18 August, Musharraf resigned as President of Pakistan due to mounting political pressure.
On 18 December 1978, Bhutto appeared in public before a crowded courtroom in Rawalpindi.
On 18 February 1997, when Nawaz Sharif obtained a vote of confidence, the Pakistan Muslim League assumed the government of Pakistan.
On 18 February 2008, after the polls were closed and the results had been announced, the PML-N gained 68 seats in the National Assembly, just behind the PPP.
On 18 February 2018, PTI confirmed he had married Bushra.
On 18 March 1978, Bhutto was pronounced guilty of murder and was sentenced to death.
On 18 March 2016, Musharraf's name was removed from the Exit Control List and he was allowed to travel abroad, citing medical treatment.
On 18 May, Nawaz ordered the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission (PAEC) to make preparation for the tests, and put military forces on high alert to provide support.
On 18 September 2005, Musharraf made a speech before a broad based audience of Jewish leadership, sponsored by the American Jewish Congress's Council for World Jewry, in New York City.
On 19 April 2015, China concluded sale of eight conventional submarines worth $5bn, the biggest arms sale by China in its history.
On 19 April 2022, Prime Minister Shahbaz Sharif's 34-member cabinet was sworn in, but President Arif Alvi refused again.
On 19 August, Musharraf defended his nine-year rule in an hour-long speech.
On 19 January 1972, Mujib was inaugurated as the first President of Bangladesh, later becoming the Prime Minister of Bangladesh in 1974.
On 19 January 1990, Kashmiri Pandits fled from Kashmiri due to atrocities such as killing and gang rape.
On 19 March 2014, The Nation polled its readers and later reported that 68% of Pakistanis believe the blasphemy law should be repealed.
On 19 March 2023, Ijaz-ul-Haq, the leader of the Pakistan Muslim League (Z) (PML(Z)) along with his party members, joined the PTI after meeting with Imran Khan.
On 19 March, Nawaz approved tax incentives in an attempt to attract new automotive manufacturing plants to the country.
On 19 November, students held a march in Dacca protesting the slowness of the government's response.
On 2 April 2011, 32 years after Bhutto's trial and execution, the PPP (the ruling party at that time) filed a petition at the Supreme Court of Pakistan (SCP) to reopen Bhutto's trial.
On 2 August 2023, PTI terminated basic party membership of twenty-two party leaders from South Punjab due to party policy violations, including its former Chief Minister of Punjab, Usman Buzdar.
On 2 December 2023, Gohar Ali Khan was elected unopposed as the Chairman of the PTI.
On 2 December 2023, PTI held new intra-party elections, which were invalidated by Election Commission of Pakistan.
On 2 June 1947, the final plan was given by the Viceroy to Indian leaders: on 15 August, the British would turn over power to two dominions.
On 2 March 1985, the revival of Constitution Order (P.O.14 of 1985) was issued in which a large number of amendments were made in the Constitution.
On 2 October 2007, Musharraf appointed General Tariq Majid as the Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee and approved General Ashfaq Kayani as Vice Chief of the Army Staff on starting 8 October.
On 2 September 2004, the Ministry of Women Development was made an independent ministry, separating from the Social Welfare and Education Ministry.
On 2 September 2013, a first information report (FIR) was registered against him for his role in the Lal Masjid Operation in 2007.
On 20 April 2015, Chinese leader and Communist Party General Secretary Xi Jinping visited Pakistan as his first foreign visit of the year, also the first by a paramount leader in 9 years.
On 20 December 1971 Mr. Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto took over as the President of Pakistan as well as the first civil Chief Martial Law Administrator.
On 20 February 1947, Attlee announced Mountbatten's appointment, and that Britain would transfer power in India not later than June 1948.
On 20 June 2001, through a notification (C.E.
On 20 June, Pakistan completed the construction of a 1,100-kilometre-long (680 mi) trench along the border in Balochistan.
On 20 May, a Pakistani court granted bail to Musharraf.
On 20 November, 14 Tanks and a Battalion from the Punjab Regiment under the command of Lt Col R. K. Singh launched another attack on the border with East Pakistan.
On 20 October 1972, the draft was revived by all leaders of the political parties and signed the declaration of adopting the Constitution in the National Assembly on 2 February 1973.
On 20 September 1996, Murtaza was ambushed by police near Karachi; they opened fire, killing him and seven others.
On 21 April 2013, Khan launched his election campaign from Lahore, addressing thousands at The Mall.
On 21 August 2025, the SCP granted him bail in eight 9 May riot cases; however, he remained jailed due to his Al-Qadir Trust case sentence.
On 21 December 2025, he was sentenced to 17 years' imprisonment and fined Rs16.4 million in the Toshakhana-II case.
On 21 February, the prime ministers signed a bilateral agreement with a memorandum of understanding to ensure nuclear-free safety in South Asia, which became known as the Lahore Declaration.
On 21 June, they had a civil ceremony at the Richmond register office before moving to Lahore.
On 21 May, Nawaz authorised nuclear weapon tests in Balochistan.
On 21 October 2022, the ECP disqualified Khan under Article 63(1)(p) of the Constitution, ruling he submitted a false statement and incorrect asset declaration for 2020–21.
On 21 October 2024, the National Assembly passed the 26th Amendment in an hours-long, overnight session.
On 22 April 2007 PEMRA threatened the private television channel AaJ TV with closure for airing news, talk shows, and other programs that discussed the then current judicial crisis.
On 22 April 2015, according to China Daily, China released its first overseas investment project under the Belt and Road Initiative for developing a hydropower station near Jhelum.
On 22 August 1947, just after a week of becoming governor general, Jinnah dissolved the elected government of Khan Abdul Jabbar Khan.
On 22 August 2008, the electoral commission called for presidential nominations to be delivered by 26 August 2008 and for elections to be held on 6 September 2008.
On 22 August 2014, Khan and his fellow 33 PTI lawmakers resigned from the National Assembly.
On 22 December 2000, a group of terrorists belonging to the Lashkar-e-Toiba stormed the Red Fort in New Delhi.
On 22 February 1971, the generals in West Pakistan took a decision allegedly to crush the Awami League and its supporters.
On 22 March 2019, a peace offer was fixed, ending the hostilities, and with both countries agreeing to fight terrorism.
On 22 March, the PPP named former parliament speaker Yusuf Raza Gilani as its candidate for the country's next prime minister, to lead a coalition government united against him.
On 22 May 2004, the Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group re-admitted Pakistan into the Commonwealth, formally acknowledging its progress in returning to democracy.
On 22 May 2013, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang's airplane was escorted by six JF-17 Thunder jets, jointly developed by the two countries, as it entered Pakistani airspace.
On 22 November 1954, bureaucratic administrators moved a resolution to merge the four western provinces into a single unit called West Pakistan.
On 22 November 2024, the IHC granted him bail in the Toshakhana case, but he remained in jail due to other cases.
On 22 November, 8 Grenadiers under the command of Lt Col Shamsher Singh advanced on the mountain position of Hilli.
On 22 October 1947, Khurshid Anwar entered Kashmir near Muzaffarabad heading a lashkar of 4,000 tribesmen.
On 22 October 1947, Pakistan's Pashtun tribal militias crossed the border of the state.
On 22 October 2015, they announced plans to divorce.
On 23 April 2013, Khan addressed large rallies in Renala Khurd, Okara, and other parts of Sahiwal Division.
On 23 August 2016, officials claimed that they had arrested 654 target killers affiliated with the Muttahida Qaumi Movement's (MQM) armed wing since 4 September 2013.
On 23 January 1951, General Ayub Khan succeeded him.
On 23 June 2025, a nationwide Day of Protest was observed in Pakistan on the call of Jamaat-e-Islami (JI) Ameer Hafiz Naeem ur Rehman, in response to US targeting Iran.
On 23 March 2008, President Musharraf said an "era of democracy" had begun in Pakistan and that he had put the country "on the track of development and progress".
On 23 November 2005, Khan was appointed chancellor of the University of Bradford.
On 23 November 2008 he left for exile in London where he arrived the following day.
On 23 November, President Yahya Khan declared a national state of emergency and told the country to prepare for war.
On 24 December 2024, Taliban authorities accused Pakistan of carrying out airstrikes in eastern Afghanistan that killed several civilians, including women and children.
On 24 February 1992, diplomatic and consular relations were established during an official visit by Kazakhstani president Nursultan Nazarbayev to Pakistan.
On 24 June 2015 and again on 1 April 2016 China blocked India's move in the UN to ban Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar; the Chinese action was in "consultation" with Pakistan.
On 24 March 1979, the Supreme Court dismissed the appeal, and Zia upheld the death sentence.
On 24 March 2013, after a four-year self-imposed exile, he returned to Pakistan.
On 24 May 2022, Khan announced a long march (Azadi March I) towards Islamabad starting on 25 May 2022.
On 24 May 2022, Khan announced a long march towards Islamabad starting on 25 May 2022.
On 24 November, Khan's supporters attempted nationwide protests demanding his release.
On 24 October 1954, he was appointed as Interior Minister in the Bogra administration of Prime Minister Mohammad Ali Bogra.
On 24 October 1977, the Supreme Court began the trial against Bhutto on charges of "conspiracy to murder" Nawab Muhammad Ahmed Khan Kasuri.
On 24 October, they formed a provisional Azad Kashmir (free Kashmir) government based in Palandri.
On 25 April 1996, he founded the political party Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI).
On 25 August 2008, Nawaz Sharif announced that Saeeduzzaman Siddiqui would be Pakistan Muslim League (N) nominee to replace Pervez Musharraf as President of Pakistan.
On 25 August, he sent an invitation to Justice Mehr Chand Mahajan of the Punjab High Court to come as the Prime Minister.
On 25 December 1981, under Presidential Order (P.O.15 of 1981) a Federal Council (Majlis-e-Shoora) was constituted by the president.
On 25 December 2003, two suicide bombers tried to assassinate Musharraf, but their car bombs failed to kill him; 16 others died instead.
On 25 December, a Taliban government official said the strikes had killed 46 people, most of them women and children.
On 25 February 2009, the Supreme Court disqualified Nawaz Sharif and his brother Shehbaz Sharif, the Chief Minister of Punjab, from holding public office.
On 25 February 2021, India and Pakistan issued a joint statement indicating that both sides agreed to stop firing at each other at the Line of Control (LOC, disputed de facto border) in Kashmir.
On 25 January, Musharraf attempted British mediation to reconcile with the Nawaz brothers but failed.
On 25 July 2011, Bangladesh Swadhinata Sammanona, the Bangladesh Freedom Honour, was posthumously conferred on former Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.
On 25 June 2013, Musharraf was named as prime suspect in two separate cases.
On 25 March 1969 the second Martial law was imposed and General Agha Muhammad Yahya Khan took over as the president of Pakistan and Chief Martial Law Administrator (CMLA).
On 25 March 1971, Khan ordered Operation Searchlight in an effort to suppress Bengali nationalism, which led to the Bangladesh Liberation War.
On 25 March 1971, Yahya initiated Operation Searchlight, a crackdown by the Pakistan Armed Forces to suppress Bangali rebellion and the Bengali nationalist movement.
On 25 November, the Pakistani tribesmen and soldiers attacked and took over Mirpur, and began the Mirpur Massacre of Hindus and Sikhs in the area.
On 26 April 2014, China Mobile announced $1 billion of investment in Pakistan in telecommunication infrastructure and training of its officials within a period of three years.
On 26 February 2014, the University of Bradford Union moved a no-confidence motion to remove him for missing all graduation ceremonies since 2010.
On 26 January 2015, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi during a conclusion of a two-day visit of Raheel Sharif to Beijing called Pakistan China's "irreplaceable, all-weather friend".
On 26 March 1969, General Yahya appeared on national television and announced a state of martial law throughout the entirety of the country.
On 26 March 1971, Major Ziaur Rahman of the Pakistan Army declared the independence of Bangladesh on behalf of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.
On 26 November, Sharif returned from exile; that same day, Bhutto filed papers to contest two parliamentary seats in the Larkana constituency.
On 26 October, Nawab of Junagadh and his family fled to Pakistan following clashes with Indian troops.
On 27 April 2016 Maalik became the first Pakistani film to be banned by the Federal Government after being cleared with Universal rating by all three Censor Boards and running in Cinemas for 18 days.
On 27 February 2001, Musharraf spoke highly of Khan at a state dinner in Islamabad, and he personally approved Khan's appointment as Science Advisor to the Government.
On 27 January 2007, she was invited by the United States to speak to President George W. Bush and Congressional and State Department officials.
On 27 July, Bhutto met for the first time with Musharraf in the UAE to discuss her return to Pakistan.
On 27 July, the Pakistani forces requested for a flag meeting and sought permission to collect dead bodies.
On 27 June 2008, the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) and the Pakistan People's Party (PPP) won three and two by-election seats respectively, in the national parliament.
On 27 June 2014, Khan announced that PTI would march on 14 August in protest of the government, alleging that the 2013 elections had been rigged.
On 27 March, he showed the cipher at a rally, alleging foreign interference and US involvement in his removal.
On 27 May, the IAF lost a MiG-27 aircraft piloted by Flt.
On 27 October 1958 General Muhammad Ayub Khan took over as second President of Pakistan.
On 27 October 2016, Nawaz hosted the 15th ministerial meeting of Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation Program (CAREC), and proposed an Open Skies Agreement between the countries.
On 28 April 1971, the Union cabinet ordered the Chief of the Army Staff General Sam Manekshaw to "Go into East Pakistan".
On 28 December 2024, Afghanistan reportedly launched retaliatory strikes on Pakistan.
On 28 July 1997, Nawaz declared 1997 a year of science in Pakistan and personally allotted funds for the 22nd INSC College on Theoretical Physics.
On 28 March 2016, a suicide attack by the Jamaat-ul-Ahrar at a park in Lahore killed 70 people on the evening of Easter Sunday.
On 28 November, Nawaz appeared in the Supreme Court and justified his actions, citing evidence against the two deposed judges.
On 28 October, Lt Gen Sagat Singh, commander of the IV Corps ordered the advance of Indian forces into the region of Dhalai near Tripura.
On 28 October, he went to the United Arab Emirates before returning home.
On 28 September 2007, in a 6–3 vote, Judge Rana Bhagwandas's court removed obstacles to Musharraf's election bid.
On 28 and 30 May 1998, Pakistan successfully carried out its nuclear tests, codenamed Chagai-I and Chagai-II.
On 29 April 2017, the director general released a tweet that said: "Notification on Dawn Leak is incomplete and not in line with recommendations by the Inquiry Board.
On 29 August 2023, a Pakistani appeals court overturned the decision and granted bail.
On 29 August 2023, an appeals court suspended his corruption conviction and prison term, granting him bail.
On 29 August 2023, the IHC suspended Imran Khan's sentence, but Khan has since then been convicted in other cases.
On 29 January 2010, the President signed the 'Protection against Harassment of Women at the Workplace Bill 2009' which the parliament adopted on 21 January 2010.
On 29 March 2016, Sharif's government released a six-minute video of Jadhav apparently confessing to the RAW's involvement in the country.
On 29 May 1988 the Assembly was dissolved by the president by using the power acquired under Article 58(2)(b).
On 29 May 2023, Ijaz later denied the rumours of PML-Z getting merged into PTI.
On 29 November 2006, Nawaz and the PML-N issued a formal apology for their actions to Alishah and Leghari.
On 29 October 1997, Chief Justice Shah and his bench decided to hear the petition filed by the Pakistan Peoples Party's lawyers and suspended the implementation of bills.
On 29 September 2022, Islamabad High Court overturned the corruption conviction of Maryam Nawaz and her husband Muhammad Safdar.
On 3 April 2014, Musharraf escaped the fourth assassination attempt, resulting in an injury of a woman, according to Pakistani news.
On 3 April 2022, President Arif Alvi, acting on his advice, dissolved the National Assembly after the Deputy Speaker rejected the no-confidence motion.
On 3 April 2022, President of Pakistan Arif Alvi dissolved the Assembly Under Section 58-I and 48-I on the advice of Prime Minister Imran Khan.
On 3 August 2023, thirteen members of PTI were expelled due to violations of the party policy.
On 3 February, he and his wife were sentenced to seven years and fined 500,000 rupees each in a criminal case over allegations that Bushra had not completed her Iddat before marrying Khan in 2018.
On 3 January 1965, prior to 1967 Assembly elections, the Jammu and Kashmir National Conference dissolved itself and merged into the Indian National Congress, as a marked centralising strategy.
On 3 July 1977, General Khalid Mahmud Arif secretly met with Bhutto, revealing that a coup was being planned in the General Combatant Headquarters (GHQ).
On 3 June 2024, the Islamabad High Court overturned his cypher case conviction.
On 3 June, Mountbatten, Nehru, Jinnah and Sikh leader Baldev Singh made the formal announcement by radio.
On 3 March 1971, the two leaders of the two wings along with the President General Yahya Khan met in Dacca to decide the fate of the country.
On 3 March 1971, the two leaders, along with President General Yahya Khan, met in Dacca to try and resolve the constitutional crisis which ended up in bitter arguments on both sides.
On 3 March 2024, Shehbaz Sharif was re-elected for the second time as the country's 24th Prime Minister.
On 3 May, The Economist gave Sharif's administration partial credit for the economy's new stability, having upheld its agreements with the IMF.
On 3 November 2007, Musharraf declared emergency rule across Pakistan.
On 3 November 2007, he was placed under house arrest after Musharraf declared a state of emergency; he later escaped from detention.
On 3 November 2022, Khan was shot in the leg in an assassination attempt in Wazirabad while leading a march to Islamabad demanding early elections.
On 3 November during a political rally near the town of Gujranwala, 2022 former prime minister of Pakistan Imran Khan was engaged in an assassination attempt, but survived the shooting.
On 3 October 2023, Pakistan ordered all undocumented Afghan asylum seekers—estimated at 1.7 million individuals—to leave the country by November.
On 3 September 1939, British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain announced the commencement of war with Nazi Germany.
On 3 September, Bhutto was arrested again, charged with authorising the murder of Nawab Muhammad Ahmed Khan Kasuri in March 1974.
On 30 April, Khan visited his hometown of Mianwali, where he addressed several rallies, criticizing the Bhuttos and Sharifs.
On 30 December 2007 he became co-chairman of the PPP, along with his son Bilawal Bhutto Zardari.
On 30 January 2024, he was convicted in the cypher case and sentenced to 10 years' imprisonment.
On 30 March 1955, a pro-Pashtunistan group attacked the embassy and the ambassador's residence.
On 30 May 2024, he told the Supreme Court he was in solitary confinement with restricted meetings with lawyers and family.
On 30 May, India test-fired a Prithvi-1 missile near the Pakistan border, which Bhutto condemned.
On 30 November 2014, he stepped down, citing "increasing political commitments," although it was reported that he effectively resigned under pressure.
On 30 November, Nawaz's cabinet ministers and a large number of supporters entered the Supreme Court building, disrupting the proceedings.
On 31 August 2017, the anti-terrorism court in Rawalpindi declared him an "absconder" in Bhutto's murder case.
On 31 May 2012, Senator Rand Paul (R-Kentucky) called for the United States to suspend all aid to Pakistan and grant citizenship to a doctor who was jailed for helping hunt down Osama bin Laden.
On 31 October 1951, he addressed the assembly for the first time and called on it to frame the state constitution and to give a 'reasoned conclusion regarding accession'.
On 3rd June 1947, Lord Mountbatten, the last Viceroy of India, called the conference of all the leaders of the Sub-continent and communicated to them his Government's Plan for the transfer of power.
On 4 April 2023, the Supreme Court declared the country's poll panel's decision to delay the assembly elections in two provinces as "unconstitutional".
On 4 December, 5 Gorkha rifles of the 59 Mountain brigade was tasked with capturing the Gazipur tea factory bungalow overlooking the important city of Sylhet.
On 4 December, a Pakistani unit from the 18 Infantry Division commanded by Maj Gen B. M. Mustafa headed by Brig.
On 4 January 1990, Srinagar based newspaper Aftab released a message, threatening all Hindus to leave Kashmir immediately, sourcing it to the militant organization Hizbul Mujahideen.
On 4 July 1947, Liaquat asked Mountbatten on Jinnah's behalf to recommend to the British king, George VI, that Jinnah be appointed Pakistan's first governor-general.
On 4 July 2011, the US Embassy in Islamabad hosted an LGBTQ event in support of gay rights in Pakistan.
On 4 September 2016, Pakistan's cabinet was given approval to negotiate a long-term defence agreement with China.
On 4 September 2018, Arif Alvi was elected as the 13th President of Pakistan.
On 4 September, IMF approved another $6.7 billion loan package over a three-year period.
On 5 August 1965, Pakistani soldiers crossed the Line of Control dressed as Kashmiri locals headed for various areas within Kashmir.
On 5 August 2023, Imran Khan was again arrested on the charges of selling state gifts and was sentenced to three years jail and five years of disqualification by the trial court Judge.
On 5 August 2023, Khan was arrested for the second time for allegedly selling state gifts.
On 5 August 2023, he was arrested again and sentenced to three years after being found guilty of misusing his premiership to buy and sell state gifts received abroad, valued over 140 million rupees.
On 5 February 1966, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman announced his program of regional autonomy for East Bengal at a news conference.
On 5 February 2023, Musharraf died at age 79 due to amyloidosis.
On 5 July 1977 through Operation Fair Play, the ISI began collecting intelligence on the Pakistan Communist Party and the Pakistan Peoples Party.
On 5 July 1977, General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq led a military coup, removing Bhutto from power and detaining him for a month.
On 5 March 1956, Major General Iskandar Mirza became the first President of Pakistan.
On 5-August-2013 Colonel General Vladimir Chirkin visited Pakistan where he was received by General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani.
On 6 August 2018, PTI officially nominated Imran Khan as the candidate for prime minister.
On 6 August 2018, his party nominated him for prime minister.
On 6 December 2016, Nawaz approved the renaming of Quaid-i-Azam University's (QAU) physics centre to the Professor Abdus Salam Center for Physics.
On 6 February 1979, the Supreme Court voted 4–3, delivering a guilty verdict.
On 6 February, Jinnah informed the Viceroy that the Muslim League would be demanding partition instead of the federation contemplated in the 1935 Act.
On 6 July 1948, Jinnah returned to Quetta, but at the advice of doctors, soon journeyed to an even higher retreat at Ziarat.
On 6 July 2007, there was another attempted assassination, when an unknown group fired a 7.62 submachine gun at Musharraf's plane as it took off from a runway in Rawalpindi.
On 6 July 2018, the Federal Judicial Complex of Pakistan sentenced Nawaz to ten years in prison.
On 6 May 2005, Hendrik Hertzberg described him as "most directly responsible" for drawing attention in the Muslim world to the alleged desecration of the Qur'an at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base.
On 6 October 2016, the daily newspaper Dawn published a report about a government meeting allegedly arranged by Sharif.
On 6 October 2021, the Pakistan military's media affairs wing announced the replacement of Faiz Hameed with Nadeem Anjum.
On 6 October, he led a convoy of 10,000 to protest US drone strikes.
On 6 and 13 December, the Soviet Navy dispatched two groups of cruisers and destroyers from Vladivostok; they trailed US Task Force 74 into the Indian Ocean from 18 December 1971 until 7 January 1972.
On 6 and 7 August, Indian forces engaged in skirmishes with several columns of Pakistani soldiers, who tried to cut communication lines and mix with the locals during celebrations.
On 7 April, the Supreme Court of Pakistan set aside the dissolution order, restoring the National Assembly.
On 7 August 2008, the Pakistan Peoples Party and the Pakistan Muslim League (N) agreed to force Musharraf to step down and begin his impeachment.
On 7 December, the general elections were held all over the country.
On 7 January 2018, the PTI central secretariat said he had proposed to Bushra, but she had not yet accepted.
On 7 July 2006, General Musharraf signed an ordinance for the immediate release on bail of around 1,300 women who were currently languishing in jails on charges other than terrorism and murder.
On 7 March 1971, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman (soon to be prime minister) delivered a speech at the Racecourse Ground (now the Suhrawardy Udyan).
On 7 March 2023, Parvez Elahi took the charge as the President of PTI, a party position that was previously held by Javed Hashmi.
On 7 November, Junagadh's court, facing collapse, invited the Government of India to take over the State's administration.
On 7 October 1958 Mirza staged a coup d'état, imposed Martial law, abrogated the Constitution, and appointed the army chief General Ayub Khan as the Chief Martial Law Administrator.
On 7 October 1958 Pakistan's civilian and first President Iskander Mirza in collaboration with General Mohammad Ayub Khan abrogated Pakistan's constitution and declared Martial Law.
On 7 October 2016, Pakistan's parliament unanimously passed new anti-rape and anti-honor-killing bills.
On 7 October, Mirza abrogated the Constitution of Pakistan and declared martial law.
On 7 September 1965, the Special Services Group (SSG) commandos were parachuted into enemy territory.
On 7 September 2012, Indian External Affairs Minister S. M. Krishna would pay a 3-day visit to Pakistan to review the progress of bilateral dialogue with his Pakistani counterpart.
On 7 September, a flotilla of the Pakistan Navy commanded by Commodore S.M.
On 8 April 2016, following lobbying by international development groups, the government changed its methodology for measuring poverty.
On 8 April, opposition parties in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly filed a no-confidence motion against Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Chief Minister Mahmood Khan.
On 8 August 1953, Sheikh Abdullah was dismissed as prime minister by the Sadr-i-Riyasat Karan Singh on the charge that he had lost the confidence of his cabinet.
On 8 August 1958, Abdullah was arrested on the charges of these cases.
On 8 December 1951 the North West Frontier Province held elections for Provincial legislature seats.
On 8 January 1977, the opposition coalesced into the Pakistan National Alliance (PNA), a nine-party coalition against Bhutto's government.
On 8 January 2015, he married British-Pakistani journalist Reham Khan in a private Nikah ceremony at his Islamabad residence.
On 8 January, he was flown to London, from where he was taken to Delhi, where Indira Gandhi and her cabinet greeted him.
On 8 July 2016, a militant leader Burhan Wani was cornered by the security forces and killed.
On 8 March 2011, the Sindh High Court registered treason charges against him.
On 8 May 2018, the National Assembly voted to pass the bill.
On 8 November 2014, Nawaz led a delegation to Beijing and signed agreements for Chinese investment reportedly worth about $46 billion.
On 8 November, talks between the two countries collapsed again but the ceasefire continued.
On 8 October 2024, Pakistani police charged him with attempted murder over a police officer's death during his supporters' protests in Islamabad.
On 8 September 1951, Zulfiquar Ali Bhutto married Nusrat Ispahani, also known as Begum Nusrat Bhutto, of Iranian Kurdish origin in Karachi.
On 8 September 1965, a company of five Maratha Light Infantry was sent to reinforce a Rajasthan Armed Constabulary (RAC) post at Munabao – a strategic hamlet about 250 kilometers from Jodhpur.
On 8 September 2013, Asif Ali Zardari became the country's first president to complete his constitutional term.
On 8 September, he rejected the allegations and asked the ECP to dismiss the case, saying all purchases were lawfully declared in his tax returns and wealth statements.
On 9 April 2015, the foremost ringleader of the attacks, Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi was granted bail against surety bonds of Rs.
On 9 April, a high-level delegation from the National Party (NP), led by party president Dr. Abdul Malik Baloch, met with Nawaz Sharif and senior Pakistan Muslim League (N) leaders in Lahore.
On 9 April, the Indian army engaged militants in Kishtwar district, resulting in the death of one militant, with two more killed in subsequent firefights.
On 9 December 1971, Hangor sank INS Khukri, inflicting 194 Indian casualties, and this attack was the first submarine kill since World War II.
On 9 December, the Indian forces under the 57 Mountain division were tasked with crossing the Meghna river through the Coronation bridge between the town of Ashuganj and Bairab Bazaar.
On 9 January 2017, the government denied visas for international preachers for the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Lahore.
On 9 June 2016, Vice News released a short documentary in which they showed different members of the LGBTQ community in Lahore.
On 9 March 2007, Musharraf suspended Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry and pressed corruption charges against him.
On 9 May, Imran Khan was placed under arrest by police.
On 9 May, he was arrested at the Islamabad High Court in connection with the Al-Qadir Trust case.
On 9 September 2013, Nawaz proposed a civil-military partnership, and immediately reestablished the National Security Council with Sartaj Aziz as his National Security Advisor (NSA).
On April 27, 2016 Maalik became the first Pakistani film to be banned by the federal government after being cleared with Universal rating by all three Censor Boards and running in cinemas for 18 days.
On August 21, 2017, Donald Trump announced his new strategy for Afghan War and accused Pakistan of providing safe havens to terrorists.
On August 22, 2016, the Headquarter was sealed and hundreds of MQM offices were bulldozed.
On Bhutto's counsel, Ayub Khan launched Operation Gibraltar in an attempt to "liberate" Kashmir.
On Bhutto's request, Salam had established and led the Theoretical Physics Group (TPG) that marked the beginning of the nuclear deterrent program.
On December 1, 2009, President Barack Obama in a speech on a policy about Pakistan said "In the past, we too often defined our relationship with Pakistan narrowly.
On February 11, 2016, US government has proposed US$860 million in aid for Pakistan during the 2016–17 fiscal year, including $265 million for military hardware in addition to counterinsurgency funds.
On February 14, 1960, Pakistan held a referendum, which was President Muhammad Ayub Khan's first popular vote following the suspension of the parliamentary system in 1958.
On January 1, 2018, Donald Trump again criticized Pakistan, saying "they have given us nothing but lies and deceit".
On January 11, 1972, Chief Justice Hamoodur Rahman sent a letter to Yahya, informing him that the commission would commence its proceedings on January 17 and requesting his statement by January 24.
On January 17, the Assembly unanimously approved the Criminal Laws (Amendment) Bill.
On January 3 of 2021, a group of miners in Balochistan were victims of terrorist attacks.
On July 28, 1994, Amnesty International urged Pakistan's Prime Minister, Benazir Bhutto to change the law because it was being used to terrorize religious minorities.
On March 18, 1984, the APMSO evolved into a proper political organization—Muhajir Qaumi Movement.
On March 29, 2024, President Biden wrote to Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif, affirming Washington's support for Pakistan in addressing global and regional challenges.
On May 6, 2023, Pakistan's Foreign Minister Bilawal Bhutto Zardari met his Chinese counterpart Qin Gang at the foreign ministry in Islamabad.
On May 6, India targeted Pakistan proper and Pakistan-administered Kashmir with multiple airstrikes as part of Operation Sindoor, marking a significant escalation of the conflict.
On May 9, a series of riots and violent demonstrations directly occurred against military and government instillations.
On November 26, 2011, 28 Pakistani soldiers were killed in an aerial attack on Pakistani positions near the border.
On October 19, 1992, Pakistani newspapers carried an ISPR press release, conveying Army's denial of the knowledge of the Jinnahpur plan.
On October 27, Iskander Mirza resigned from the presidency, transferring it to Ayub Khan.
On October 6, 2023, Pakistan announced the deportation of 1.7 million undocumented Afghan immigrants.
On October 7, 1958, Martial Law was promulgated and the Constitution abrogated.
On October 7, President Iskander Mirza declared martial law in Pakistan.
On Pakistan's request the United States temporarily stopped drone strikes in north-western Pakistan.
On Piers Morgan Tonight, Musharraf announced his plans to return to Pakistan on 23 March 2012 to seek the Presidency in 2013.
On September 1, 2018, the U.S. Department of Defense announced that they cancel the transfer of approximately $300 million in military aid to Pakistan.
On Thursday night, West Pakistani armed forces suddenly attacked the police barracks at Razarbagh and the EPR headquarters at Pilkhana in Dacca.
On a visit to Pakistan in 2006, former Chief Minister of Kashmir Omar Abdullah remarked that foreign militants were engaged in reckless killings and mayhem in the name of religion.
On arrival in Saudi Arabia, Nawaz Sharif was received by Prince Muqrin bin Abdul-Aziz, the Saudi intelligence chief, who had met Musharraf in Islamabad the previous day.
On assuming the presidency, General Yahya Khan acceded to popular demands by abolishing the one-unit system in West Pakistan and ordered general elections on the principle of one man, one vote.
On both sides of the disputed border, an increase in territorial skirmishes that started in late 2016 and escalated into 2018 killed hundreds of civilians and made thousand homeless.
On election day, the Pakistan Telecommunication Authority shut down internet access nationwide.
On foreign fronts allegations of nuclear proliferation damaged Musharraf and Aziz's credibility.
On her mother's side, she was the granddaughter of the famous wrestler, The Great Gama (born Ghulam Mohammad Baksh Butt).
On her trip to the United States, she told Congress that "we do not possess, nor do we intend to make, a nuclear device".
On his last nomination, he appointed Feroz Khan as the seventh Prime Minister of the country, who had been supported by the Awami League and the Muslim League.
On his return to Kashmir valley in February 1986, Gul Shah retaliated and incited the Kashmiri Muslims by saying Islam khatrey mein hey (trans.
On its way to the capital, the PTI convoy was attacked by stones from PML (N) supporters in Gujranwala; there were no fatalities.
On leaving in a bulletproof vehicle, she opened the car's escape hatch and stood up to wave to the surrounding crowds.
On major decision, the army, navy, marine and air force weren't taken in confidence.
On one hand the community did face intimidation and violence but on the other hand he says there was no genocide or mass murder as suggested by Pandits who are based outside of Kashmir.
On policy issues, Musharraf befriended senior justice of the Supreme Court of Pakistan Justice Rafiq Tarar (later president) and held common beliefs with the latter.
On political fronts, Musharraf faced fierce opposition from the ultra-conservative alliance, the MMA, led by clergyman Maulana Noorani.
On returning to Pakistan in 1988, Bhutto's mother arranged for her marriage to the businessman Asif Ali Zardari.
On state visits to the United Kingdom and France, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi convinced them to break with their ally the United States and block any pro-Pakistan resolution in the United Nations.
On taking office, he cut spending by reducing PM staff from 524 to 2, and auctioning eight buffaloes and 61 luxury vehicles previously acquired for the PM's office.
On the Kashmir issue, Khan and Jinnah's policy reflected "Pakistan's alliance with [the] U.S and United Kingdom" against "Indian imperialism" and "Soviet expansion".
On the Pakistani side, military alertness was raised and some Pakistan International Airlines flights suspended.
On the basis of this report a new Constitution was framed and given to the nation on 1 March 1962.
On the day after the elections, at 2 AM, the ECP was supposed to begin to release the provisional results for national and provincial constituencies.
On the diplomatic front, Indo-US relations improved, as the United States appreciated Indian attempts to restrict the conflict to a limited geographic area.
On the domestic front, members of the JUI (F) have been vocal critics of changes in the blasphemy laws.
On the eve of the elections, a cyclone struck East Pakistan killing approximately 500,000 people, though this event did not deter people from participating in the first ever general election.
On the following day, Khan continued his mass campaign in South Punjab.
On the following day, he defended his nine-year rule in an hour-long televised speech.
On the internal front, Khan, faced with socialist nationalist challenges and different religious ideologies saw the country fall into more unrest.
On the midnight of 9 February 1973, Bhutto launched an operation to seize control of the Iraqi Embassy, and preparation for the siege was hastily prepared.
On the morning of 27 December 2007, Bhutto met with Afghan President Hamid Karzai.
On the orders of Chief of Army Staff General Raheel Sharif, paramilitary forces immediately sealed MQM offices including Nine Zero.
On the orders of Chief of Army Staff, General Raheel Sharif, the paramilitary Sindh Rangers immediately raided sealed multiple MQM offices including Nine Zero.
On the other hand, Farooq Abdullah allied with the Mirwaiz Maulvi Mohammed Farooq for the elections and charged that the state's autonomy had been eroded by successive Congress Party governments.
On the other hand, Pakistan's relations with Iran have been strained at times due to sectarian tensions.
On the other hand, although smaller in quantity, the Indian territory captured by Pakistan in Punjab had significantly greater economic value.
On the other hand, he applauded Indian restraint for not crossing the LOC and escalating the conflict into an all-out war.
On the other hand, only 11% of Pakistanis had a favourable view of the United States, the lowest in the world.
On the other hand, state-owned public schools face several challenges including poor management and governance, and incompetence of consecutive governments in the education sector.
On the other hand, the Muslims of the Jammu province supported the Muslim Conference, which was allied to the All-India Muslim League and favoured joining Pakistan.
On the other hand, the opposition held 173 seats.
On the other hand, women belonging to the upper and middle classes have increasingly greater access to education and employment opportunities and can assume greater control over their lives.
On the same day social media was heavily restricted.
On the same day, Mr. Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto took oath as the Prime Minister, while Mr. Fazal Illahi Choudhary took oath as the president of Pakistan.
On the same day, a 24-member Basic Principles Committee was formed to prepare a draft Constitution on the basis of the Objectives Resolution.
On the same day, he spoke at a rally in Rawalpindi's Constituency NA-56, accompanied by Shaikh Rasheed Ahmad.
On the same day, seven more soldiers were killed in four separate attacks.
On the same day, through another Order (C.E.
On the streets of major cities of West Pakistan, massive wall chalkings that employed derogatory and pejorative terms for Ayub made headlines in the print and broadcast media.
On the way back from London, Jinnah and Liaquat stopped in Cairo for several days of pan-Islamic meetings.
On this issue, Opposition Parties submitted a resolution for vote of no confidence against Speaker National Assembly on 20 June 2003 which was rejected on 28 June 2003.
Once appointed by the Prime Minister, all Cabinet Ministers are officially confirmed to their appointment offices by the President in a special oath of ceremony.
Once the Instrument of Accession was signed, Indian soldiers entered Kashmir with orders to evict the rebels.
Once the implementation gap sets in, the decline begins.
One Hindu worshipper and two policemen were injured during the incident.
One Indian Mi-8 helicopter was also lost due to Stinger SAMs.
One Pakistani fighter pilot, MM Alam, was credited with the record of downing five Indian aircraft in less than a minute, becoming the first known flying ace since the Korean War.
One US Intelligence study is reported to have stated that Kargil was yet another example of Pakistan's (lack of) grand strategy, repeating the follies of the previous wars.
One Western commentator in 1969 estimated Gohar Ayub's personal wealth at the time at $4 million, while his family's wealth was put in the range of $10–20 million.
One contributing factor to the overall decline of magazines is their relatively higher production cost, as they often require more specialized writers and higher-quality advertising.
One friend said that after her time in prison she remained in "a mildly traumatised state, jumping at sudden noise and worrying about who might be spying on her".
One key benefit is the potential to disrupt an enemy's offensive plans, forcing them to shift focus from their initial attack to defending their own territory.
One leader of the PNA secretly wrote a letter to chiefs of staff of armed forces and chairman joint chiefs to intervene to end the crises; thus inviting armed forces to enforce martial law.
One month after conclusion of the Kargil War, the Atlantique Incident, in which a Pakistan Navy plane was shot down by India, briefly reignited fears of a conflict between the two countries.
One of her fellow students at Oxford stated that there, she "epitomised the classic spoilt rich girl from a third world country".
One of his professors at NDU was general Jehangir Karamat who served as Musharraf's guidance counsellor and instructor who had significant influence on Musharraf's philosophy and critical thinking.
One of his supporters died in the attack.
One of the biggest problems identified in the country is the presence of a non-uniform educational system.
One of the core issues was Malaysia's agreement on sharing its space technology with Pakistan.
One of the few public educators is a woman named Shukria Gul, who was infected by her husband.
One of the first major steps taken by General Ayub Khan was the appointment of a Constitution Commission on 17 February 1960.
One of the major achievements in Bhutto's life was the drafting of Pakistan's first-ever consensus constitution for the country.
One of the major achievements of this Assembly was the passage of Political Parities Act, 1962.
One of the major decisions taken by this Assembly was the establishment of West Pakistan (One Unit), with the aim to create parity between the two wings (East and West Pakistan).
One of the most popular cases in this context is the Asia Bibi blasphemy case.
One of the rulings also barred Khan from holding public office for 10 years.
One or two of his girlfriends were called "mysterious blondes" in British tabloids.
One plan called for organising an armed insurgency in the western districts of the state and the other for organising a Pushtoon tribal invasion.
One prominent example is honor killings (“karo kari”), which are believed to have accounted for more than 4,000 deaths from 1998 to 2003.
One seat in the Senate is reserved for minorities in each province.
One sticking point was whether the Azad Kashmiri army was to be disbanded during the truce stage or at the plebiscite stage.
One such atrocity was the death of transgender woman, Alisha.
One such court case, decided in 2008, displayed the same disapproving attitude towards a lesbian relationship as it would have towards two men involved.
One tool widely used by the government is to cut off 'unfriendly' media from governmental advertising.
One was the Kargil War and the other was the hijacking of the India Airliner by militants.
One year after China's border war with India, Pakistan and China signed the Sino-Pakistan Agreement.
Ongoing disagreements eventually led to the collapse of the government's socialist alliance, which later united with the secular Independence Movement led by Asghar Khan.
Only 0.57% of Pakistanis, or 768,000 people out of a population of 190 million pay income tax.
Only 12% of Pakistanis viewed U.S. economic aid favorably, while an even smaller percentage, 8%, regarded U.S. military aid as a positive impact on the country.
Only 37 percent of married women are not related to their spouses before marriage.
Only 9 percent of women used contraceptives in 1985, but by 2000 this figure had increased substantially, and as of 2012/13, the contraceptive prevalence rate was 35.4%.
Only Treasure Minister Sartaj Aziz opposed the tests, due to the economic recession, low foreign exchange reserves, and economic sanctions.
Only candidates between 21 and 30 years old can apply for CSS Exam.
Only officials could vote in the council; non-official members, such as Jinnah, had no vote.
Only the National Assembly can approve the federal budget and all finance bills.
Only the National Assembly, through its Public Accounts Committee, scrutinizes public spending and exercises control of expenditure incurred by the government.
Only the Parliament can amend the Constitution, by a two-thirds majority vote separately in each House.
Only the center at the University of Karachi (funded by the Canadian International Development Agency) was able to run a master of arts program.
Only then would he allow the state to accede.
Only two countries issued statements over this issue.
Only two months later, two Kashmiri terrorists belonging to Jaish-e-Mohammed raided the Swami Narayan temple complex in Ahmedabad, Gujarat killing 30 people, including 18 women and five children.
Operation Clean-Up, which ostensibly sought to eliminate all terrorists irrespective of their political affiliation, began in June 1992.
Operation Clean-up was started by late General Asif Nawaz after Jinnahpur conspiracy and Major Kaleem torture case.
Operation Datta Khel was a military operation and coup planned by Major William Brown along with the Gilgit Scouts, aimed at overthrowing the rule of the Dogra dynasty of Kashmir.
Operation Duck, the earlier epithet for this assault, was renamed as Operation Bison by Cariappa.
Operation Dwarka, as it is known, is a significant naval operation of the 1965 war contested as a nuisance raid by some.
Operation Fair Play was the code name for the military coup d'état conducted on 5 July 1977 by Zia-ul-Haq.
Operation Searchlight, followed by Operation Barisal, which attempted to kill the intellectual elite of the east.
Operation Zarb-e-Azb has been described as turning point in Pakistan war on terrorism.
Operations Searchlight and Barisal led to a crackdown on East Pakistani politicians, civilians, and student activists.
Operations became more lucrative as the Mughal Empire entered into decline in the 18th century, giving the company opportunity to gain further advantages by intervening in regional politics.
Operations resumed on 1 June when 12 JnK Rifles and 5 Para SF attacked and captured point 5390 and then decided to attack 5203 again.
Opponents accused Nawaz of using political influence to build factories for himself and his business, for expanding the Armed Forces' secretive industrial conglomerate and bribing generals.
Opposition parties alleged "massive rigging" and military influence in his favour.
Opposition parties including the PPP and the Pakistan Muslim League referred to Musharraf's decision to hold a referendum as inappropriate and urged citizens to boycott the vote.
Opposition parties, mainly PML-N, alleged major vote rigging and malpractices.
Opposition politicians said a judge, not a retired judge, should investigate.
Opposition to this type of legislation remains.
Opposition was particularly strong in East Bengal, where it was seen as an attack on the democratic principle of political egalitarianism.
Order No.1) the Chief Executive assumed the office of the president of Pakistan under President's Succession Order, 2001.
Ordered by the Supreme Court, General Musharraf held general election in 2002, preventing Sharif and Benazir Bhutto from keeping the public office.
Ordinary citizens face challenges in reporting instances of corruption they encounter with the police.
Originally elected for five-year term, Leghari was forced resigned from the presidency after forcing out Benazir Bhutto from the government in 1996.
Originally there were 210 National Assembly seats including 10 women which was increased to 237 in 1985 and later to 342.
Originally, the PPP nomination was Makhdoom Shahbuddin, but he was forced to withdraw after the ANF issued non-bailable arrest warrants against him.
Originally, the general seats of the National Assembly were 200 with additional 10 seats reserved for women, bringing the total strength to 210.
Osmani had differences of opinion with the Indian leadership about the role of the Mukti Bahini in the conflict.
Other Awami League leaders were arrested as well, while a few fled Dacca to avoid arrest.
Other Ministers are Ministers of State, junior members who report directly to one of the Cabinet Ministers, often overseeing a specific aspect of government.
Other benefits include the free housing and medical treatment as well as tax-free electricity bills.
Other central services included the Pakistan Postal Service, Pakistan Military Land and Cantonment Service, Central Secretariat Service, and Central Information Service.
Other estimates place the death toll lower, at 300,000.
Other morality and public order provisions in the Penal Code are used to target LGBTQ Pakistanis as well.
Other notable military operations during the global war on terrorism in the 21st century have included: Zarb-e-Azb, Black Thunderstorm, and Rah-e-Nijat.
Other organisations like the ASEAN Regional Forum too supported India's stand on the inviolability of the LOC.
Other prominent female Pakistani politicians include Begum Nasim Wali Khan, Syeda Abida Hussain, Sherry Rehman and Tehmina Daultana.
Other than demanding that the plebiscite administrator not be from one of the major powers, he placed no other conditions.
Other top U.S. officials such as Hillary Clinton and Leon Panetta made similar statements.
Other women on the subcontinent had picked up the political banners of their husbands, brothers, and fathers before me.
Others fled to West Pakistan, some of whom made their way to the western districts of Poonch and Mirpur, which were undergoing rebellion.
Others, however, state that India emerged victorious as it successfully gained the majority of the contested territory.
Our army can be your army if you want us.
Our diplomatic relations with Libya were established in December 1951.
Our relationship with the US has been as of a master-servant relationship, or a master-slave relationship, and we've been used like a hired gun.
Our soldiers were made to occupy barren ridges, with hand held weapons and ammunition", Lt Gen Aziz wrote in his article in The Nation daily in January 2013.
Out of a total of 313 seats in the National Assembly, the Awami League won 167 seats but none from West Pakistan and the PPP won 88 seats but none from East Pakistan.
Out of the 47 million employed peoples in Pakistan in 2008, only 9 million were women and of those 9 million, 70 percent worked in the agricultural sector.
Out of the 50 different committees of the Senate, ten (10) are presided over by women members.
Out of the pool of corruption-affirmative respondents, 71% reported that money was "demanded directly by the actor".
Out of these 86 seats, 58 are officially recognized as PTI members by the Supreme Court of Pakistan and Election Commission of Pakistan, while the remaining seats are officially Independents.
Out of these, 6 are recognized as PTI and 4 are recognized as members of the Sunni Ittehad Council.
Outside funding for these Sunni Militia comes mostly from Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states which have a predominantly Sunni population and leadership.
Over 100 criminals were arrested for the church arsons, including members of Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan.
Over 11 TLP members have been killed as of now.
Over 5,000 trucks carrying goods remained stranded, causing financial losses.
Over 500 Indian soldiers were killed in the three-month-long Kargil War, and it is estimated around 600–4,000 Pakistani militants and soldiers died as well.
Over 75 people attended, including Pakistani LGBTQ organisation advocates.
Over 93,000 Pakistani troops surrendered to the Indian forces and Bangladesh Liberation forces, making it the largest surrender since World War II.
Over the course of the 17th century, the company secured a strong commercial presence in the Indian subcontinent through trade in indigo dye, saltpeter, and Indian textiles.
Over the following six years, he investigated how Bhutto had obtained the money used to buy this item.
Over the next five months, India released more than 90,000 war prisoners, with Lieutenant-General A.A.K.
Over the three day protest, the French embassy asked its citizens to temporarily leave the country.
Over the years the JUI-S has maintained that it is more committed to enforcing Sharia in the country than the JUI (F) faction.
Over time, he reportedly cultivated her as an asset by introducing her to Pakistani contacts and facilitating her visit to Pakistan, where she met intelligence officials.
Over two years Musharraf and Aziz survived several assassination attempts by al-Qaeda, including at least two where they had inside information from a member of the military.
Overall, the living standard for people in Pakistan declined as inflation and unemployment grew at an exponential rate particularly as UN sanctions began to take effect.
Overall, the two nations have almost always had a friendly bond.
Overchuk emphasized the importance of enhancing socio-cultural ties and cooperation under the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
Owing to disagreements over the demilitarisation steps, a plebiscite was never held and the cease-fire line essentially became permanent.
Ownership of publications (mainly newspapers and news agencies) is restricted to Pakistani nationals if special government permission is not given.
PAEC was also responsible for all the pre and post enrichment phases of the nuclear fuel cycle.
PAF and Navy fighter pilots voluntarily served in Arab nations' militaries against Israel in the Yom Kippur War (1973).
PEMRA is also involved in media censorship and occasionally halts broadcasts and closes media outlets.
PIA was split into two companies: a holding group would retain some ₨250 billion in debt and excess personnel, and a "new" PIA would hold the lucrative landing rights and new aircraft.
PML(N), PMLN or PML-N)[a] is a Pakistani political party with a centre-right political position and a liberal conservative ideology.
PML-N attempted to negotiate a settlement with Khan and his party's backers to break the political deadlock.
PML-N claimed that the elections had been the most free and fair in the country's history.
PML-N currently holds the most electoral seats in the National Assembly; and third-most in the Senate.
PML-N supporters blame the army for orchestrating their defeat, and protests accused the army of "terrorism", including in Rawalpindi, not far from the army's headquarters.
PMLN blamed this primarily on alleged vote rigging and administrative malpractices.
PPP activists staged large protests and strikes in different parts of the country, increasing pressure on Ayub to resign.
PPP made a secret agreement to restore the PML government in the Punjab.
PTI also emerged as the second-largest party in Karachi.
PTI also succeeded in electing its Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly, Asad Qaiser and Qasim Suri respectively.
PTI also won an even larger majority in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa a second time and won the most seats in Punjab to form a government.
PTI and PAT protesters also stormed state-run PTV, assaulting staff.
PTI and observers have claimed it has found evidence of pre-poll rigging.
PTI began their march from Lahore on 14 August and reached Islamabad on 16 August.
PTI began to grow slowly but did not achieve immediate popularity.
PTI chairman Gohar Ali Khan said Khan directed PTI-backed independents to form governments in the Centre, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and Punjab.
PTI claims it won a total of 180 National Assembly seats in comparison to the 93 seats it officially won.
PTI claims it won the elections in Punjab and nationwide and claims several vote numbers throughout Pakistan were changed by the ECP to decrease vote amounts for PTI.
PTI emerged as a major party in the 2013 Pakistani general election and raised public distress on various issues against the government in the following years.
PTI has alleged that 38 Sindh Assembly seats, many of which are in Karachi were rigged in the 2024 Sindh provincial election against it, in favor of MQM-P and PPP.
PTI has been found to win most of its seats in Karachi.
PTI is currently serving as an opposition party in Sindh since 2024 after PTI-backed members won 10 seats.
PTI launched its first dharna on 14 August 2014.
PTI leaders were forced to quit party/party positions in televised press conferences.
PTI nominated Mian Aslam Iqbal for Opposition Leader but has been replaced by Malik Ahmad Khan Bhachar temporarily due to threats of an arrest to Iqbal.
PTI nominated Usman Buzdar as Chief Minister of Punjab, Mahmood Khan as Chief Minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and Jam Kamal Khan as Chief Minister of Balochistan.
PTI obtained 34 out of 99 seats in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly.
PTI openly boycotted the Pakistani general election on 18 February 2008 because it believed that the election was fraudulent and fraught with irregularities.
PTI party membership may be suspended or cancelled for violations of party discipline.
PTI plans to develop poverty reduction programmes, promote diverse livelihood options, improve the healthcare system, and improve educational system reforms.
PTI revealed evidence suggesting that PTI workers and party members were harassed, and unlawfully arrested.
PTI ruled from 2013 to 2018 under the Pervez Khattak administration, from 2018 to 2023 under Chief Minister Mahmood Khan and from 2024 to the present under the Gandapur ministry.
PTI supporters have been reported to have attacked media personnel during their protest demonstrations.
PTI swooped the militancy-hit northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and formed the provincial government.
PTI was charged with targeting Pakistan Television and parliament, as well as law enforcement.
PTI won 31 directly elected parliamentary seats, marking a significant increase from the 2002 elections.
PTI won a large plurality across the country becoming the largest party in the National Assembly following its widespread campaign for a ‘Naya Pakistan’ (New Pakistan).
PTI won a total of 116 of the 270 seats contested.
PTI won the most seats in the National Assembly but fell short of a majority; the party subsequently formed a coalition government with several smaller parties.
PTI workers also attacked the Geo News Islamabad office.
PTI workers and members caused incidents of vandalism, looting, and arson, resulting in Rs.
PTI's Chief Minister, Pervez Khattak began infrastructure projects to build dams which aimed to limit flooding and provide small scale electricity in remote areas.
PTI's former leader and head of the party's election tribunal investigated corruption and fraud, as well as internal election rigging within PTI.
PTI's former president, Makhdoom Javed Hashmi, has alleged that Imran Khan was conspiring with the Chief Justice of Pakistan, Nasirul Mulk.
PTI's popularity propelled 20 representatives to the Punjab Assembly.
PTI, in conjunction with many political parties, joined the All Parties Democratic Movement, which was opposed to further military rule.
PTI’s cabinet placed top party leadership, Central General Secretary Asad Umar, Hammad Azhar and Vice Chairman Shah Mahmood Qureshi in top ministries.
PTI’s campaign gained confidence after its biggest opponent, Pakistan Muslim League (N) (PML-N) fell to major corruption allegations following the Panama Papers Case.
PTI’s governance model was announced as to build Pakistan as a humanitarian state based on principles of the first Islamic state of Medina.
PTI’s taking office saw a break in the PPP and PML-N two-party system.
Padamsee later stated that his portrayal was not historically accurate.
Pakistan Air Force also launched air operations, and with the support of navy and army, the air force had pounded the mountainous hidden havens of the Separatists.
Pakistan Army actively participated in the Russian Army War Games 2015 held in the Russian Far East.
Pakistan Army has a separate cadet course for women which is known as 'Lady Cadet Course', female cadets are trained in Pakistan Military Academy.
Pakistan Army officers "conveniently" on leave and the former officers of the Indian National Army were recruited to command the forces.
Pakistan Army troops also had a relatively strong presence as part of a UN and NATO coalition during the Bosnian War and the larger Yugoslav Wars.
Pakistan Considers Proposal to Establish New Steel Mill in Karachi with Russian Cooperation.
Pakistan Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) officials said they were also present at what they called a joint operation; President Asif Ali Zardari flatly denied this.
Pakistan Navy's officials were found guility of corruption in Karachi affair.
Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf established its youth wing aimed at addressing the concerns and challenges faced by individuals under the age of 40.
Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf was founded by Imran Khan on 25 April 1996 in Lahore.
Pakistan Today reported on 2 April 2014 that Pakistan will sell JF-17 Thunder jets to Saudi Arabia, after the kingdom had given a grant of US$1.5 billion to Pakistan in early 2014.
Pakistan abstained from voting as UN General Assembly censures Russia in March 2022, and says it ‘remains neutral’.
Pakistan acceded to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) on 29 February 1996.
Pakistan accepted these proposals but India rejected them because it did not want Pakistan, who was in India's eyes the 'aggressor', to have an equal footing.
Pakistan accused India of using chemical weapons and incendiary weapons such as napalm against the Kashmiri fighters.
Pakistan advocated that the issues be treated by separate working groups.
Pakistan agreed but Nehru said he would not allow a third person to decide the fate of four million people.
Pakistan also attempted to internationalise the Kashmir issue, by linking the crisis in Kargil to the larger Kashmir conflict, but such a diplomatic stance found few backers on the world stage.
Pakistan also believed that any tension in the region would internationalise the Kashmir issue, helping it to secure a speedy resolution.
Pakistan also closed its airspace to Indian aircraft and halted all trade with India.
Pakistan also gave nationality to many Muslim Indians in Mozambique after 1961 Indian annexation of Goa.
Pakistan also has bilateral visa-abolition scheme with Tonga, for all passport types of both the countries.
Pakistan also has the sixth-largest standing armed forces in the world and is spending a major amount of its budget on defense.
Pakistan also offers training facilities to young Albanian bureaucrats in the field of banking, finance, management and diplomacy.
Pakistan also provide scholarships to Ugandan students under its technical assistance programme.
Pakistan ambassador to Russia is accredited as a non-residential ambassador to Belarus; however, Belarus maintains an embassy in Islamabad since 2014.
Pakistan and Bosnia have a free trade agreement.
Pakistan and China also conducted joint maritime exercise dubbed as "Sea Guardian 2" in July, 2022.
Pakistan and China have long praised the close ties the two countries have with each other.
Pakistan and Egypt, both being Muslim countries, share cordial relations.
Pakistan and Fiji maintain formal diplomatic relationship, they have diplomatic missions in each other's countries.
Pakistan and France have high levels of diplomatic meetings and are in good terms with one another.
Pakistan and India have also decided to co-operate on economic fronts.
Pakistan and Lesotho maintain honorary consulates in each other's country.
Pakistan and Libya share warm relations characterized by mutual respect, expanding economic ties, and collaboration at multilateral fora.
Pakistan and Mongolia maintain cordinal diplomatic relationship.
Pakistan and Russia established bilateral diplomatic relations in 1991.
Pakistan and Russia have a lot to gain from a relationship of understanding and cooperation.
Pakistan and Russia signed an agreement for the Pakistan Stream Gas pipeline from Karachi to Kasur, and reached a price accord by December 2016.
Pakistan and Russia wrapped up their first strategic dialogue on 31-August-2013.
Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, under Nawaz and King Fahd, had enjoyed extremely close business and cultural relations that is sometimes attributed as a special relationship.
Pakistan and Suriname both maintain friendly and cooperative relations.
Pakistan and Ukraine are also heavily cooperating with each other in aerospace engineering, aerospace technologies, bio-medical sciences and science and technology.
Pakistan and the United States established relations on 15 August 1947, a day after the independence of Pakistan, when the United States became one of the first nations to recognise the country.
Pakistan believed that the population of Kashmir was generally discontented with Indian rule, and that a resistance movement could be ignited by a few infiltrating saboteurs.
Pakistan blamed Afghan negotiators for backpaddling on an agreement while Afghanistan accused Pakistan of making unreasonable demands and not addressing issues like violation of airspace.
Pakistan celebrated the 70th and 75th anniversary of diplomatic relations with Russia.
Pakistan celebrates Defence Day every year to commemorate 6 September 1965 to pay tribute to the soldiers killed in the war.
Pakistan claimed that Afghanistan is building unlawful structures on the border which violates Pakistan's territorial sovereignty.
Pakistan claimed that Indians lost 120 tanks at Chawinda.
Pakistan claimed that TTP militants crossed the Afghan border to attack those posts within Pakistan.
Pakistan claimed that the captured men were Kashmiri 'freedom fighters', a claim contradicted by the international media.
Pakistan claims that around 100 top level al-Qaeda leaders/operators were killed or arrested by the ISI.
Pakistan claims these insurgents are Jammu and Kashmir citizens, and are rising up against the Indian army as part of an independence movement.
Pakistan confirmed the acceptance of the accession on 15 September 1947.
Pakistan consisted of two wings, West-Pakistan and East-Pakistan.
Pakistan consistently figures near the top of the list of failed states year after year.
Pakistan consistently found themselves on the United States side of issues faced during the Cold War.
Pakistan declined an invitation to America's 'Summit for Democracy' under the Biden administration.
Pakistan denounced US sanctions on its missile program as "discriminatory".
Pakistan desires peace and tranquility both within and outside its borders so that the much needed socio-economic development goals are achieved.
Pakistan did not accept this plan because it believed that India's commitment to a plebiscite for the whole state should not be abandoned.
Pakistan didn't gain meaningful support at an international level.
Pakistan does not have civil rights laws to prohibit discrimination or harassment on the basis of sexual orientation.
Pakistan ended the war having depleted 17 percent of its front-line strength, while India's losses amounted to less than 10 percent.
Pakistan established diplomatic relations with San Marino on 12 April 2006.
Pakistan established diplomatic relations with the United Kingdom on 14 August 1947.
Pakistan established full diplomatic relations with Bangladesh on 18 January 1976, and relations improved in the following decades.
Pakistan exports to Tonga in 2007 was T$11,655 (approximately US$7,000).
Pakistan extended diplomatic recognition to the Kyrgyz Republic on 20 December 1991.
Pakistan faced a civil war and Indian military intervention in 1971 resulting in the secession of East Pakistan as the new country of Bangladesh.
Pakistan failed to gather any support from its allies at the UN, and trade agreements were repealed by the US, Europe, and Asian bloc.
Pakistan failed to submit its initial report that was due in 1997.
Pakistan fielded a more significant number and more modern artillery; its guns out-ranged those of the Indian artillery, according to Pakistan's Major General T.H.
Pakistan forces in East Pakistan surrendered in Dhaka on 16 December 1971, leading to the creation of the independent state of Bangladesh.
Pakistan found itself in a state of extremely high insecurity as tensions mounted with India and Afghanistan's infighting continued.
Pakistan fully supports the proposal of the creation of an independent Palestinian state.
Pakistan further killed senior Al-Qaeda leader Adnan el Shukrijumah—long wanted by the United States.
Pakistan gained nothing from a conflict which it had instigated.
Pakistan had a pivotal role in the plea for independence for Morocco; in 1952, Moroccan delegate Ahmed Bulferg attempted to address the UN security council and was shut down by the French.
Pakistan had debts of US$32bn against reserves of little more than $1bn.
Pakistan had experienced impressive economic growth since the early 1960s, but the war ended that.
Pakistan had the only three-tier integrated bottom-up common-representational local government system, until it was adapted for another country in 2003.
Pakistan had to send troops to the southern part of the country to protect Sialkot and Lahore instead of using them to help get to Kashmir.
Pakistan had wished to foment an 'Islamic Revolution' which would transcend national borders covering Pakistan, Afghanistan and Central Asia.
Pakistan has a High Commission in Abuja and Nigeria has a High Commission in Islamabad, as well as a consulate-general in Karachi.
Pakistan has a High Commission in Port Louis and Mauritius has a High Commission in Islamabad.
Pakistan has a High Commission located in Wellington whilst New Zealand has a consulate-general in Karachi.
Pakistan has a complex taxation system of more than 70 unique taxes administered by at least 37 tax collection institutions of the Government of Pakistan.
Pakistan has a dual system of civil and sharia law.
Pakistan has a long and strong relationship with China.
Pakistan has a parliamentary system in which, the executive and legislature are elected directly by public voting in constituencies on a first-past-the-post system through a secret ballot.
Pakistan has a vibrant media landscape and enjoys independence to a large extent.
Pakistan has a vibrant media landscape; among the most dynamic and outspoken in South Asia.
Pakistan has a vibrant media landscape; among the most dynamic in South Asia and world.
Pakistan has accused the Taliban government in Afghanistan to have provided sanctuary and safe havens to Pakistani Taliban terrorists to attack Pakistani territory.
Pakistan has also been a steadfast supporter of Lebanon particularly when it was invaded by Israel.
Pakistan has also declined to recognise the state of Israel until the "liberation of Palestine" will take place.
Pakistan has also granted Russia access to a warm water port in the Arabian Sea (Gwadar Port).
Pakistan has also lobbied for greater representation of the Arab League within the United Nation Security Council.
Pakistan has also paid US$298 million for 100 harpoon anti-ship missiles, 500 sidewinder air-to-air missiles (US$95 million); and seven Phalanx Close-In Weapons System naval guns (US$80 million).
Pakistan has also served as a conduit for China's influence in the Muslim world.
Pakistan has an embassy in Bucharest and an honorary consulate in Iaşi.
Pakistan has an embassy in Moscow and Russia has an embassy in Islamabad.
Pakistan has an embassy in Niamey, although Niger does not maintain a permanent embassy in Islamabad.
Pakistan has an embassy in Phnom Penh although Cambodia does not have an embassy in Pakistan.
Pakistan has an embassy in Yangon, and Burma has an embassy in Islamabad.
Pakistan has an honorary consulate in Montevideo.
Pakistan has around 300 privately owned daily newspapers.
Pakistan has been accused of letting China access US military technology in the past.
Pakistan has been one of China's major trade partners.
Pakistan has been providing training courses to Libyan officers.
Pakistan has been ruled by both democratic and military governments.
Pakistan has been supplying military equipment to the Sri Lanka Armed Forces since 1999.
Pakistan has blocked access to websites critical of the government or the military.
Pakistan has brotherly relations with Malaysia.
Pakistan has close bilateral ties with China and the Muslim world, including Turkey, Azerbaijan, and the Gulf Arab countries.
Pakistan has collaborated with China in extensive military and economic projects, seeing both as counterweights to an Indian-Western alliance.
Pakistan has denied any involvement in terrorist activities in Kashmir, arguing that it only provides political and moral support to the secessionist groups who wish to escape Indian rule.
Pakistan has its High Commission in Kuala Lumpur, and Malaysia has its High Commission in Islamabad.
Pakistan has many immensely talented women who have played a vital role in changing the social standards and norms of the country.
Pakistan has pledged since 2009 to assist in military training and intelligence to form a joint terror fighting force for their two countries.
Pakistan has taken certain initiatives in the health sector to redress gender imbalances.
Pakistan has two classes of courts: the superior (or higher) judiciary and the subordinate (or lower) judiciary.
Pakistan has used the OIC as a forum for Enlightened Moderation, its plan to promote a renaissance and enlightenment in the Islamic world.
Pakistan helped China in reestablishing formal ties with the West, where they helped make possible the 1972 Nixon visit to China.
Pakistan in turn has also blamed India for providing support to terrorist organisations operating in Pakistan such as the BLA.
Pakistan inherited that legislation when it gained independence after the partition of India in 1947.
Pakistan initially did not acknowledge many of its casualties, but Sharif later said that over 4,000 Pakistani troops were killed in the operation.
Pakistan insists that the Maharaja was not a popular leader, and was regarded as a tyrant by most Kashmiris.
Pakistan is a federal republic with three tiers of government: national, provincial and local.
Pakistan is a largely rural society (almost two-thirds of the population lives in rural areas) and women are rarely formally employed.
Pakistan is a major non-NATO ally as part of the war on terrorism, and a leading recipient of U.S. aid.
Pakistan is a middle power which is ranked among the emerging and growth-leading economies of the world and is backed by one of the world's largest and fastest-growing middle class.
Pakistan is a multiparty democracy where several political parties compete for seats in the National and Provincial assemblies.
Pakistan is a nuclear power as well as a declared nuclear-weapon state, having conducted six nuclear tests in response to five nuclear tests of their rival Republic of India in May 1998.
Pakistan is a patriarchal society where men are the primary authority figures and women are subordinate.
Pakistan is also a member of the Coffee Club to oppose Indian membership in the United Nations Security Council.
Pakistan is also an important member of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC).
Pakistan is an active member of the Commonwealth of Nations, Organization of Islamic Cooperation, and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
Pakistan is keen to expand trade, economic, energy, connectivity and security cooperation with Russia.
Pakistan is neither a member nor an observer of the Arab League, but the two entities share a strong relationship.
Pakistan is no different and has a vibrant culture of hijras (ہیجڑا).
Pakistan is represented in Zimbabwe by an embassy in Harare.
Pakistan is represented through its High Commission in Ottawa and consulates in Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver.
Pakistan is subdivided into four provinces, one territory, and one capital territory.
Pakistan joined Non-Aligned Movement in 1979.
Pakistan joined two formal military alliances opposed to the Soviet bloc: the Central Treaty Organization (CENTO) in 1955; and the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization (SEATO) in 1962.
Pakistan launched Operation Desert Hawk and captured a few Indian posts near the Kanjarkot fort border area.
Pakistan launched a ground offensive on the western front.
Pakistan launched pre-emptive air strikes on 11 Indian airbases on 3 December 1971, leading to India's entry into the war on the side of Bangladeshi nationalist forces.
Pakistan lifted the block after Facebook prevented access to the page.
Pakistan lost 200-250 tanks, and India lost 200-300 tanks.
Pakistan lost 66 tanks in the battle while India only lost 6.
Pakistan lost half its navy, a quarter of its air force, and a third of its army.
Pakistan lost half its population and a significant portion of its economy, and suffered setbacks to its geopolitical role in South Asia.
Pakistan made gains in the Rajasthan desert, but its main push against India's Jammu-Srinagar road link was repulsed, and Indian tanks advanced to within a sight of Lahore.
Pakistan made various efforts to persuade the Maharaja of Kashmir to join Pakistan.
Pakistan maintain cordial relations with Mozambique.
Pakistan maintained that the strikes "constituted a serious violation of international law" and the statute of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Pakistan maintains a High Commission in Brunei, and Brunei has a High Commission in Islamabad, Pakistan.
Pakistan maintains a High Commission in Cape Town, and South Africa maintains a High Commission in Islamabad.
Pakistan maintains a consulate general in North Trinidad.
Pakistan maintains a permanent mission to the UN, which is currently headed by Ambassador Munir Akram in New York.
Pakistan maintains an embassy in Argentina which is accredited to Paraguay and a consulate in Asunción.
Pakistan maintains an embassy in Mexico City, and Mexico is accredited to Pakistan from its embassy in Tehran.
Pakistan maintains an honorary consulate in Guyana.
Pakistan maintains an honorary consulate in Kampala.
Pakistan maintains an honorary consulate in Kinshasa.
Pakistan maintains an honorary consulate in Madagascar.
Pakistan maintains an honorary consulate in Zagreb.
Pakistan maintains cordinal diplomatic relations with Iceland.
Pakistan maintains friendly diplomatic relations with Lithuania.
Pakistan maintains that Kashmir is the "jugular vein of Pakistan" and a currently disputed territory whose final status must be determined by the people of Kashmir.
Pakistan maintains that the Maharaja used brute force to suppress the population.
Pakistan nevertheless requested military aid from the USSR, which was predictably rebuffed as the Soviet Union had previously oriented itself with India.
Pakistan now turned to China for military aid, and the Chinese tank T-59 started replacing the US M-47/48 tanks as the Pakistan Army's MBT (Main Battle Tank) from 1966.
Pakistan officially joined the United Nations (UN) on 30 September 1947 just over a month after it came into existence.
Pakistan officials often blame India and Afghanistan for supporting terrorism in Pakistan.
Pakistan once provided NATO with a supply route to Afghanistan, a link that dominated bilateral relations during the war.
Pakistan organised the rebel fighting forces of Azad Kashmir into a full-fledged military of 32 battalions, and India insisted that it should be disbanded as part of the demilitarisation.
Pakistan participates in all of the UN's specialized agencies to reduce poverty, emergency response, and climate resilience.
Pakistan prosecuted him despite US demands for him to be freed because he enjoys diplomatic immunity.
Pakistan protested to the Security Council which informed India that this development conflicted with the parties' commitments.
Pakistan reacted by recalling its finance minister who was on a visit to the U.N. Pakistan also tried to strengthen the relationship with China and Saudi Arabia to counter the U.S.
Pakistan recognized Ukraine's independence in 1991.
Pakistan recognized independence of Azerbaijan 1991 (the second country after Turkey) and the two countries established full diplomatic relations in 1992.
Pakistan recognized the new Chinese government on 4 January 1950, becoming the first Muslim country to do so.
Pakistan recognizes the Federal Government of Somalia as the official national government of Somalia.
Pakistan refused to accept the state's accession to India and escalated the conflict, by giving full-fledged support to the rebels and invading tribes.
Pakistan rejoined the Commonwealth in 1989.
Pakistan reported hits in Muzaffarabad, Kotli, and Bahawalpur.
Pakistan responded by airlifting in two infantry divisions and reorganizing their forces.
Pakistan retained the territory won in this battle after the Simla Agreement.
Pakistan saw a record $20 billion of foreign investment during this term, largely in the power industry.
Pakistan saw the Taliban as a way to secure trade routes to Central Asia and establish a government in Kabul friendly to its interests.
Pakistan say it "can't launch any new offensives against militants for six months to a year because it wants to 'stabilize' previous gains made.
Pakistan sent another five battalions from West Pakistan as reinforcements.
Pakistan sent in UN Peacekeeping forces to the former Yugoslavia during the Yugoslav wars.
Pakistan should stick to its original plan, the plutonium route.
Pakistan signed the agreement to convene a convention for drafting a world constitution, leading to the establishment of the Constitution for the Federation of Earth in 1968.
Pakistan strongly supported China's successful 2007 application to join the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) as an observer.
Pakistan suffered a currency crisis when the government failed to arrest the 30% fall in the value of the Pakistani Rupee from ₨.
Pakistan supported the Afghan mujahideen in the Soviet–Afghan War (1979–1989) and the First Afghan Civil War (1989–1992).
Pakistan supports China's position on Xinjiang, Tibet, the territorial disputes in the South China Sea, the Sino-Indian border dispute as well as China's claim to Arunachal Pradesh.
Pakistan took 540 km2 [210 sq mi] of Indian territory: 490 km2 [190 sq mi] in the Chhamb sector and 50 km2 [19 sq mi] around Khem Karan.
Pakistan transitionally retained the British sovereign as its head of state in the post-partition period, using its Dominion status as a deterrent against possible Indian incursion.
Pakistan used to designate their High Commissioner to Australia as a non-residential High Commissioner to Fiji.
Pakistan uses a common law system, which was introduced during the colonial era, influenced by local medieval judicial systems based on religious and cultural practices.
Pakistan usually denies these allegations but has said in the past that it does not have full control of the actions of the ISI.
Pakistan vigorously championed the right of self-determination for Muslims around the world.
Pakistan was a close ally of the People's Republic of China, with which Nixon had been negotiating a rapprochement and which he intended to visit in February 1972.
Pakistan was a member of the Commonwealth from 1947 to 1956 under the name 'Dominion of Pakistan'.
Pakistan was a staunch supporter of Bosnia during the civil war.
Pakistan was accused of allowing nuclear proliferation.
Pakistan was also among the six countries that took part in the Master of The Air Defense Battle Competition in August 2015 besides Russia, China, Egypt, Venezuela and Belarus.
Pakistan was also experiencing growing levels of violence from Islamist militants, such as the Siege of Lal Masjid.
Pakistan was closely tied to the United States in the Cold War.
Pakistan was exposed to a kind of "nuclear threat and blackmail" unparalleled elsewhere....
Pakistan was exposed to a kind of "nuclear threat and blackmail" unparalleled elsewhere..... (...)...
Pakistan was founded in 1947 as a Dominion (an independent realm or kingdom) within the British Commonwealth.
Pakistan was heavily criticised by other countries for instigating the war, as its paramilitary forces and insurgents had crossed the LOC (Line of Control).
Pakistan was heavily involved in creating the Taliban in 1994.
Pakistan was one of only three countries which recognised the Taliban government and Mullah Mohammed Omar as the legitimate ruler of Afghanistan.
Pakistan was one of the first countries to open its embassy in Baku.
Pakistan was one of the first countries to recognize Turkmenistan as an independent country in December 1991.
Pakistan was one of the only states to recognize the Taliban-led Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (1996–2001) against the Northern Alliance-led internationally recognized Islamic State of Afghanistan.
Pakistan was popularly envisaged as an Islamic utopia, a successor to the defunct Islamic Caliphate and a leader and protector of the entire Islamic world.
Pakistan was previously ruled by the British Empire and local residents were British subjects and British protected persons.
Pakistan was supposed to receive one-sixth of the assets of the government before independence, carefully divided by agreement, even specifying how many sheets of paper each side would receive.
Pakistan was surprised by the lack of support from the United States, an ally with whom the country had signed an Agreement of Cooperation.
Pakistan was the first country to accord formal recognition to the UAE on its achieving independence.
Pakistan will not be made a "hostage" to India by signing the CTBT before [India].
Pakistan would launch similar attacks to attempt to regain lost territory at Minimarg Lake and Turtuk.
Pakistan's 2013 elections took place on 11 May 2013 across the country.
Pakistan's 2018 elections took place on 25 July 2018 nationwide.
Pakistan's Chief Justice, Iftikhar Chaudhry, was the architect of major extension of rights to Pakistan's transgender community during his term.
Pakistan's Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, was rushed to New York City to make the case for a resolution on the ceasefire.
Pakistan's Foreign Ministry spokesman, Nafees Zakaria rejected the Afghan allegations as "baseless".
Pakistan's Islamist groups and conservative forces often accused her of being politically inexperienced, corrupt, and opposed her secularist, modernising agenda.
Pakistan's Parliamentary system was changed to a Semi-presidential government as a consequence.
Pakistan's Political Agent, Khan Mohammad Alam Khan, arrived on 16 November and took over the administration of Gilgit.
Pakistan's alliance with the U.S. was strained due to factors such as its support for the Taliban and public distancing of the Pakistani government from the U.S.
Pakistan's ambassador to the USA is accredited as Pakistan's non-resident High Commissioner to Jamaica.
Pakistan's army had been able to withstand Indian pressure, but a continuation of the fighting would only have led to further losses and ultimate defeat for Pakistan.
Pakistan's attempt to capture Ahnoor, a town north-east of Jammu and a key region for communications between Kashmir and the rest of India, was a failure.
Pakistan's bilateral trade with Russia reached an unprecedented $1 billion in 2023.
Pakistan's blasphemy laws are known to be widely abused by those seeking personal gain from those accused, as evidenced by the Imran Ghafur Masih case study.
Pakistan's citizens have had serious Shia-Sunni discord.
Pakistan's claims to the disputed region are based on the rejection of Indian claims to Kashmir, namely the Instrument of Accession.
Pakistan's decades-long rivalry and conflict with U.S. strategic partner India also poses difficulties for the country's efforts to improve relations with the United States.
Pakistan's democracy has no recall method.
Pakistan's diplomatic relations with Albania are very cordial given that Albania is the, and only European country with OIC membership.
Pakistan's efforts for the independence movements of Indonesia, Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco and Eritrea were significant and initially led to close ties between these countries and Pakistan.
Pakistan's embassy in Zimbabwe is also accredited to Congo.
Pakistan's foreign policy is meant to formalize and define its interactions with foreign nations and standardize interactions with organizations, corporations and individual citizens.
Pakistan's former military ruler and President Gen. Pervez Musharraf explained in his 2006 autobiography, In the Line of Fire: “We have captured 689 and handed over 369 to the United States.
Pakistan's geographic proximity to Iran and its substantial Shia population constrained its ability to publicly support any U.S. stance perceived as hostile toward Tehran.
Pakistan's government has maintained its territorial claim on Junagadh, along with Manavadar and Sir Creek in Gujarat, on its official political map issued on 4 August 2020.
Pakistan's government urged opposition leaders to refrain from holding rallies ahead of the elections, citing an escalating terrorist threat.
Pakistan's huge debt obligations totaling $77.5 billion, particularly towards China and Saudi Arabia had reached record levels in 2022/23.
Pakistan's independent judicial system began under the British Raj, and its concepts and procedures resemble those of Anglo-Saxon countries.
Pakistan's intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), became involved in supporting Muslims around the world.
Pakistan's mainstream media reported on the October 2021 constitutional rift between civil and armed wings over the appointment of the director general post only after ministers spoke on the matter.
Pakistan's media sector is highly influenced by the ownership structure.
Pakistan's military depends heavily on Chinese armaments, and joint projects of both economic and militaristic importance are ongoing.
Pakistan's military doctrine emphasizes a proactive defense, also referred to as "offensive-defense".
Pakistan's military initially depended almost entirely on American armaments and aid, which was increased during the covert U.S. support of Islamic militants in the Soviet–Afghan War.
Pakistan's navy mounted an effective blockade.
Pakistan's own Integrated Missile Research and Development Programme developed space and nuclear missiles and began unmanned flight tests of its space vehicles in the mid-1990s.
Pakistan's political structure was changed to replace the semi-presidential system into a parliamentary democracy.
Pakistan's political system is based on an elected form of governance.
Pakistan's primary diplomatic response, one of plausible deniability linking the incursion to what it officially termed as "Kashmiri freedom fighters", was in the end not successful.
Pakistan's pro-communist forces commanded considerable support in East Pakistan, while in West Pakistan, the pro-Soviet Pakistan Socialist Party remained largely marginalized.
Pakistan's provinces are divided into districts called zillas in local languages (counterpart to a county in US or UK terminology).
Pakistan's purpose for this operation was to assess the response of the Indian government and military and to draw Indian armour southward to Kutch, away from the Punjab and Kashmir region.
Pakistan's reconnaissance was done through unmanned aerial vehicles and AN/TPQ-36 Firefinder radars supplied by the US.
Pakistan's relations with India have improved recently and this has opened up Pakistan's foreign policy to issues beyond security.
Pakistan's religious leaders openly supported the crime by labeling Bengali freedom fighters "Hindus" and Bengali women "the booty of war".
Pakistan's score was 61 on a scale from 1 (most free) to 100 (least free), which earned a status of "not free".
Pakistan's second constitution was approved in 1962.
Pakistan's system is the one that applies an integrated federated systemic framework most comprehensively, so far.
Pakistan's total exports to Nepal are worth US$1.631 million while Nepal's exports to Pakistan tally US$3.166 million.
Pakistan's two main opposition parties, the PPP and the PML (N) won the majority of seats in the election.
Pakistan, Iran and China have also established a 'Trilateral Consultation' to discuss counter-terrorism and security.
Pakistan, Russia signs a landmark defence deal in 2015.
Pakistan, since independence, was geo-politically divided into two major regions, West Pakistan and East Pakistan.
Pakistan, with its strategic position, natural resources and warm-water ports, has long been an ally of Beijing.
Pakistani Foreign Minister Sir Zafaullah Khan arranged for Bulferg to receive a Pakistani nationality, and the latter was then able to address the UN in favor of Morocco's independence.
Pakistani I Corps attempted to cut Indian transport lines between Punjab and Jammu by advancing on the Shakargarh sector on 6 December.
Pakistani Information Minister Fawad Chaudhry responded to these allegations, saying "We had two options: either to use force, and when you use force people can be killed.
Pakistani Interior Minister, Naseerullah Babar is said to threw weight behind the Taliban.
Pakistani Lieutenant General Shahid Aziz, and then head of ISI analysis wing, has confirmed there were no mujahideen but only regular Pakistan Army soldiers who took part in the Kargil War.
Pakistani President Agha Muhammad Yahya Khan ordered the Pakistani military to restore the Pakistani government's authority, beginning the civil war.
Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan visited Russia on 23 February 2022.
Pakistani Radio and Television, which was established in 1964 was also brought under the strict control of the government.
Pakistani army officers "conveniently" on leave and the former officers of the Indian National Army were recruited to command the forces.
Pakistani authorities concluded that they had successfully contained the Monsoon Offensive, which proved a near-accurate observation.
Pakistani casualties have been difficult to determine due to multiple figures being provided by various sources.
Pakistani citizens who are transgender or a member of the third gender are a recognised minority group and are thus entitled to certain civil rights.
Pakistani courts have offered conflicting opinions on the application of birthright citizenship.
Pakistani dresses are popular around the world for their variety of fabrics, embroidery, colors and use of patterns.
Pakistani forces were reinforced by eight battalions from West Pakistan.
Pakistani forces were unable to effectively counter the Indian attack, as they had been deployed in small units around the border to counter the guerrilla attacks by the Mukti Bahini.
Pakistani government estimates that Pakistan has suffered total losses of $126.79 billion since 9/11 attacks.
Pakistani human rights activists say that charges of blasphemy are being used to harass minorities and settle personal conflicts.
Pakistani law is a mixture of both British law and Islamic law.
Pakistani law is even more inadequate in protecting women victims of domestic violence and penalizing batterers.
Pakistani law mandates that any "blasphemies" of the Quran are to be met with punishment.
Pakistani media strictly censors LGBTQ related news stories.
Pakistani nationals who naturalise in the United Kingdom or any other country that the federal government specifies no longer automatically lose their Pakistani nationality.
Pakistani newspaper, Dawn news, reports that Pakistan's economic losses due to war on terrorism declined by 62% from 2014 to 2018.
Pakistani officers were not only trained in military tactics, but also taught leadership, management, and economic theory.
Pakistani officials state that the terrorism in Pakistan will decline more once the fencing of Pakistan-Afghanistan border is complete.
Pakistani politicians have historically voiced concerns over judicial involvement in governance, often calling for a recalibration of power between the judiciary and the legislature.
Pakistani prime minister Bogra was able to return home triumphantly.
Pakistani prime minister Shehbaz Sharif also considered strengthening ties with Russia as a foremost priority for Pakistan.
Pakistani prostitutes do not have access to condoms or contraception, and there is little effort to provide any sort of public health education for this high-risk group.
Pakistani singers, musicians, comedians and entertainers have enjoyed widespread popularity in India, with many achieving overnight fame in the Indian film industry Bollywood.
Pakistani soldiers and tribesman captured Rajouri on 7 November 1947, which began the Rajouri Massacres of 30,000+ Hindus and Sikhs, locals and refugees from Partition.
Pakistani soldiers began patrolling in territory controlled by India in January 1965, which was followed by attacks by both countries on each other's posts on 8 April 1965.
Pakistani sources deny the existence of any plan called Operation Gulmarg.
Pakistani statesman Shaukat Hayat Khan resigned in protest of this folly; Hyderabad went to India anyway after the two nations went to war over Kashmir.
Pakistani troops have served in 29 countries so far, in a total of 46 UN peacekeeping missions.
Pakistani troops were also deployed to Sudan as part of the UN peacekeeping force during the second Sudanese civil war.
Pakistani troops were deployed by the UN's Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA) to CAR in 2014, as a peacekeeping force.
Pakistani women have been kept behind in the field of education due to low government funding, fewer schools and colleges for women, and a low enrollment rate of women in certain areas.
Pakistani women lack social value and status because of negation of their roles as producers and providers in all social roles.
Pakistani women play a major role in agricultural production, livestock raising and cottage industries.
Pakistani women were granted the suffrage in 1947, and they were reaffirmed the right to vote in national elections in 1956 under the interim Constitution.
Pakistani women's historical experiences are deeply rooted in South Asian women's historical experiences tracing back to monarchy and colonization.
Pakistanis continued to be British subjects until independent Pakistan enacted its own nationality legislation.
Pakistanis decided to preempt this possibility by wresting Kashmir by force if necessary.
Pakistanis reacquired this status after the country rejoined the organisation in 1989.
Pakistanis suspected sinister motives and time was whittled away.
Pakistanis will receive four-week internships at U.S. media organizations.
Pakistans head of the army and the military operations during the war, General Abdul Hamid Khan played a central role in directing Pakistan's Western front campaigns.
Panag, GOC-in-C Northern Command, told reporters that the army has ruled out the presence of Al-Qaeda in Indian-administered Jammu and Kashmir.
Paraguay maintains an embassy in Egypt accredited to Pakistan and an honorary consulate in Islamabad.
Parliament through the Second Amendment to the Constitution on 7 September 1974, under Prime Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, declared Ahmadi Muslims as non-Muslims.
Parliament unanimously passed the 18th amendment to the Constitution of Pakistan, which implemented this.
Part of the underestimation of women's economic role is that Pakistan, like many other countries, has a very large informal sector.
Partially in response, defence expenditure and funding of science under then-Prime minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto increased by 200%.
Partition meant that for some farmers, the markets to sell their crops were on the other side of an international border.
Partly as a result of the inefficient information gathering preceding the war, India established the Research and Analysis Wing for external espionage and intelligence.
Parveen Shakir, Kishwar Naheed and Fehmida Riaz are also renowned for their feminist poetry in Urdu.
Pas Chih Bayed Kard Ay Aqwam-e-Sharq پس چہ باید کرد اے اقوامِ شرق includes the poem "Musafir" مسافر ("The Traveller").
Pasban-e-Aman Force Personnel were given anti-terrorism training near Simly Dam, by September 15, 2023 three batches had finished their training.
Pashtuns who have advocated for human rights for their ethnic group have been attacked and murdered.
Patel had offered Kashmir to Pakistan in exchange for Pakistan relinquishing its claim to Hyderabad.
Patel ordered the annexation of Junagadh's three principalities.
Paternally, he is of Pathan origin from the Niazi tribe.
Patriarchal structures are relatively stronger in the rural and tribal setting where local customs establish male authority and power over women's lives.
Patriarchal values embedded in local traditions, religion and culture predetermine the social value of gender.
Paul Hayes, a cricket enthusiast, helped facilitate his entry.
Payment of bribes in order to escape and avoid charges was also commonplace; 31% of 4,224 respondents reported paying bribes to the police.
Peaceful night was turned into a time of wailing, crying and burning.
People are worried and scared about the finances required for her marriage because of the dowry practice.
People give more value to a baby boy than a baby girl.
People have started accepting sex reassignment surgery to change their sex as a norm as compelled by gender dysphoria.
People of Jammu took to streets to protest against this decision, which led to a Hindu-Muslim clash.
People say our demands smack of communalism.
Personal goodwill towards Pakistan was evident even when Liaqat Ali Khan was assassinated in 1951.
Personal initiatives of Yahya had helped to establish the communication channel between the United States and China, which would be used to set up the Nixon's trip in 1972.
Pervez Hoodbhoy described Nawaz as "a reflection of Pakistani society" adding that "he is silent on what matters most: the insurgency.
Pervez Musharaff also tried to do the same more than a decade later but to no avail.
Pervez Musharraf gained political support from PML (Q) as their president in 2004 and 2007; both elections were controversial as leading parties PPP and PML (N) boycotted the elections.
Pervez Musharraf stated that 357 soldiers were killed.
Pervez Musharraf[a] (11 August 1943 – 5 February 2023) was a Pakistani politician and a military officer who served as the tenth president of Pakistan from 2001 to 2008.
Pirzada filed an application to then-chief martial law administrator.
Playing until 1992, he captained the Pakistan national cricket team for most of the 1980s and early 1990s.
Please never mention the railways to me again".
Police may also act illegally and arrest LGBTQ individuals despite the law stating otherwise.
Police reported over 400 calls made by PTI leaders, including Imran Khan, instructing rioters to target these areas.
Police was observed as the most corrupt sector in a 2013 survey by Transparency International (TI).
Political interference opened doors for corrupt political practices to seep into the nation's economic planning processes.
Political leaders were also subjected to criticism.
Political parties, interest groups and other political organisations in Pakistan are required to support Islam and public morality.
Political pressure on media is mostly done indirectly.
Political violence erupted while MQM organized protests and strikes.
Political violence gained momentum in 1993 and 1994.
Political: Yahya Khan Hamid Khan Tikka Khan Abdul Motaleb MalikMilitary: A.
Politics in Pakistan refers to the ideologies and systems by which Pakistan was established in 1947.
Polling stations from Lahore (4 Seats) and Multan (1 Seat) have been declared sensitive.
Polls were conducted in Indian administered Kashmir in August–September 1951.
Polls were postponed for the sixth seat in Lahore due to Nawaz Sharif's eligibility contest.
Poonch was finally relieved after a siege of over a year.
Poonch was originally an internal jagir (autonomous principality), governed by an alternative family line of Maharaja Hari Singh.
Poor weather conditions and range limitations intermittently affected bomb loads and the number of airstrips that could be used, except for the Mirage 2000 fleet, which commenced operations on 30 May.
Popular support for Musharraf declined when Nawaz Sharif successfully made a second attempt to return from exile, this time accompanied by his younger brother and his daughter.
Popularly elected by direct elections in the parliament, the Prime minister is responsible for appointing a cabinet as well as running the government operations.
Popularly, he is known as Quaid-i-Millat (Leader of the Nation) and Shaheed-i-Millat (Martyr of the Nation), by his supporters.
Positive diplomatic gains were made via several treaties strengthening Pakistan's historical bonds with its western neighbours in Asia.
Posthumously, she came to be regarded as an icon for women's rights due to her political success in a male-dominated society.
Powers to exercise the authority are limited to the ceremonial figurehead, and required to address the Parliament to give a direction for national policies before being informed of its key decisions.
Practically, those appointed on posts in direct appointment quota in each occupational group through the CSS Exam have a natural advantage.
Praja Parishad also called for the full integration with the rest of India, directly clashing with the demands of National Conference for complete autonomy of the state.
Preemptive strikes against India led to another war in 1971, which freed East Pakistan and created Bangladesh.
Prem Nath Dogra was also the chairman (sanghchalak) of the RSS in Jammu.
Premarital relations are strictly prohibited in the country and are frowned upon by society.
Premier Zhou Enlai and Mao invited Pakistan to join the raid to reclaim the State of Jammu and Kashmir from India.
Preparations for attacking Kashmir were also noted in the princely states of Swat, Dir, and Chitral.
Presently the Kohat Tunnel Project and the Ghazi Brotha Dam Project are being completed with the help of the Japanese private and government contractors.
President Asif Ali Zardari consented to the resulting presidential order under Article 186 of the Constitution, and the Supreme Court took up the petition on 13 April 2011.
President Ayub Khan held extensive talks with him to explore various avenues for solving the Kashmir problem and agreed to come to Delhi in mid June for talks with Nehru as suggested by him.
President Ayub Khan invited Chief of Army Staff General Yahya Khan to enforce the martial law in the country.
President Ayub Khan, on the same day, declared a state of emergency through radio broadcast proclaiming that Pakistan was in a state of war with India.
President Ayub authorized the planning of nuclear power plants.
President Bhutto also issued orders for the house arrest of Yahya, the man who imprisoned Mujib in the first place.
President Bhutto created the current Constitution of Pakistan in 1973, transforming Pakistan into a parliamentary democracy, and reducing presidential powers to that of a ceremonial figurehead.
President General Pervez Musharraf addressed the Joint Session of the Parliament on 17 January 2004.
President General Pervez Musharraf signed into law the "Women's Protection Bill", on 1 December 2006.
President General Yahya Khan was aware of the explosive political situation in the country.
President Ghulam Ishaq Khan was constitutionally obliged to invite Bhutto to form the next government, but was reticent to do so.
President Johnson placed an embargo on both nations during the war in 1965.
President Khan saw this as a major economic failure despite Khan's permission granted to Bhutto for the approval of her economic policies.
President Leghari unsuccessfully supported Chief Justice Sajjad Ali Shah— both of them resigned, ending the conflict between the Judiciary, the Executive, and the Parliament.
President Mirza demanded the resignation of Prime Minister Suhrawardy and turned down his request to seek a motion of confidence at the National Assembly.
President Mirza had not envisaged any change in his previous powers; he wanted to retain the ability to maneuver things in keeping with his own whims.
President Mirza had widely lacked the parliamentary spirit, distrusting the civilians to ensure the integrity and sovereignty of the country.
President Mirza himself was apprehensive, though for a different reason.
President Mr. Muhammad Rafiq Tarar was, however, allowed to continue in his office.
President Nixon gave permission for Jordan to send ten F-104s and promised to provide replacements.
President Obama also said, "In the past, we too often defined our relationship with Pakistan narrowly, those days are over.
President Trump also offered to mediate between India and Pakistan on Kashmir.
President Trump called for dramatically strengthening trade ties between Pakistan and the United States as America is a top export destination for Pakistan.
President Trump hailed the growing relationship between the United States and Pakistan.
President Yahya Khan imposed the martial law in the country with a promised to hold general elections within two years.
President Yahya Khan postponed the inauguration of the National Assembly, causing disillusionment among the Awami League and their supporters throughout East Pakistan.
President Yahya postponed the meeting of the national assembly which fueled a popular movement in East Pakistan.
President Zia Ul Haq, Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Farooq Leghari used this constitutional provision to dissolve the elected Prime Minister's Government.
President Zia installed many high-profile military officers in civilian posts, ranging from central to provisional governments.
President Zia's long eleven-year rule featured the country's first successful technocracy.
President Zia-ul-Haq appointed Mohammad Junejo as prime minister and assumed more powers through the constitutional amendment.
President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto called for a constitutional convention and invited the leaders of the all political parties to meet him on 17 April 1972.
President can impose governor rule in any province.
Press freedom in Pakistan is limited by official censorship that restricts critical reporting and by the high level of violence against journalists.
Pressure built up to reconstruct the cabinet which eventually witnessed General Ayub Khan becoming the defence minister and Iskander Mirza as home minister in October 1954.
Previously in 1982, she was also first woman to be appointed as civil judge in Quetta, Balochistan.
Previously, he was issued a show-cause notice for his comments against Salman Akram Raja.
Previously, the senior-most judge in the Supreme Court would automatically succeed as Chief Justice upon retirement of the incumbent at age 65.
Previously, women only took part in non-combat roles in Pakistan Air Force.
Prime Minister Ali Khan established a strong government and had to face challenges soon after gaining the office.
Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto was successful in passing the Brown Amendment, but the embargo on arms remained active.
Prime Minister Bhutto deliberately worked to improve relations with the Soviet Union and the Communist bloc.
Prime Minister Bhutto presided over the country during the penultimate period of the Cold war, and cemented pro-Western policies due to a common distrust of communism.
Prime Minister Chaudhry Muhammad Ali and his government officials worked with the opposition parties in the country to formulate a constitution for Pakistan.
Prime Minister Gilani headed a collective government with the winning parties from each of the four provinces.
Prime Minister Huseyn Suhrawardy paid several official visits to the United States – typically with his Army commander, Ayub Khan, at his side.
Prime Minister Imran Khan formed his cabinet, with key positions like Minister of Finance entrusted to Asad Umar and Minister of Foreign Affairs to Shah Mehmood Qureshi.
Prime Minister Imran Khan visited Moscow to meet President Vladimir Putin as Russia was launching the invasion of Ukraine.
Prime Minister Khan accepted the American invitation and paid an official 23-day state visit to the United States beginning on May 3, 1950.
Prime Minister Mir Zafarullah Khan Jamali resigned from his office on 26 June 2004.
Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif also spoke with Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian, conveying Pakistan's condemnation of the U.S. strikes.
Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif described the amendment as an assertion of legislative authority and a step toward restoring balance in Pakistan's constitutional structure.
Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani, a member of Bhutto's PPP, asked Musharraf to pardon convicts on death row on her birthday in honour of Bhutto.
Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gilani's cabinet organised a legal team to seek the reopening of the trial.
Prime Minister Zafarullah Khan Jamali resigned on 26 June 2004, after losing the support of Musharraf's party, PML(Q).
Prime minister has only ministerial power regarding the appointment procedure.
Prime minister holds office by virtue of their ability to command the confidence of the National Assembly.
Prime ministerial powers have significantly grown with a delicate system of check and balance by each branch.
Princess Sarvath wife of Prince Hassan is originally a Pakistani.
Prior to 18th Constitutional Amendments, appointments to the Supreme Court of Pakistan were made by the President of Pakistan, on the recommendation of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.
Prior to 2002, News Agencies in Pakistan were completely unregulated.
Prior to August 1947, the British Army's recruiting administration had recruited the enlists from the districts of the Jhelum, Rawalpindi, and Campbellpur that dominated the recruitment flows.
Prior to his career in politics, he was a four-star general and appointed as the chief of Army Staff and, later, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff by prime minister Nawaz Sharif in 1998.
Prior to the violence that resulted in deaths, Imran Khan asked his followers to take law into their own hands.
Private radio stations operate in some major cities, but are prohibited from broadcasting news programming.
Pro-India politician Abdul Rashid says Pandits forced the migration on themselves so Muslims can be killed.
Pro-Pakistani groups were reportedly favoured over other militant groups.
Problems with India arose when India attacked and took the Siachen glacier, prompting Pakistan to strike back.
Problems with India further escalated in 1998, when television reported Indian nuclear explosions, codenamed Operation Shakti.
Problems with Soviet Union and Soviet bloc further escalated after Khan failed to make a visit to Soviet Union, despite his intentions.
Problems with providing electricity was one of the major issues with the winning candidate, Nawaz Sharif, promising to reform electrical service and provide reliable service.
Programs such as this can go a long way in an Islamic socio-cultural context to develop tolerance and understanding.
Prominent actress Sarah Khan states that Allah provides for equal gender rank for women and that instead of women's day's Aurat March activism, women need to focus on their children's education.
Prominent among the raids were 11 March raid on the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) headquarters Nine Zero and the offices of Sindh Building Control Authority (SBCA).
Prominent poet-intellectual Faiz Ahmed Faiz was suspected of involvement.
Promoted to major on 16 July 1938, he became the political agent of the Tribal Belt in April 1938, stationed at Khyber.
Promotion to the JCO ranks remains a powerful and influential incentive for that enlisted personnel desire not to attend the accredited four-year college.
Promptly after the FSC's ruling in 1990, Bishop Dani L. Tasleem filed an appeal in the Supreme Court of Pakistan, which has the power to overrule the FSC.
Promulgation of 1956 constitution, Iskandar Ali Mirza became first President of Pakistan; he was also noted of being the first East-Pakistani Bengali president of Pakistan.
Proponents of Pakistan's "offensive-defense" doctrine argue that it offers several advantages.
Proponents of social democracy and national pride were supported, while the nationalisation and centralisation of the economy continued after the Eighth Five-Year Plan was enacted to end stagflation.
Proponents of social democracy, left-wing philosophy, and socialist orientation were encouraged by the government and such ideas slowly entered in the ordinary lives of the people.
Proposed solutions include independence for Kashmir, formal partition between India and Pakistan, and greater autonomy for the states of Azad Kashmir and Jammu and Kashmir.
Protected persons could not travel to the UK without first requesting permission, but were afforded the same consular protection as British subjects when travelling outside of the Empire.
Protesters also attacked the police station in Nawan Kot, taking 12 policemen (in some reports said to be 11) as hostages and torturing them.
Protesters defied curfew with attacks on security forces and public properties.
Protests and injuries were reported at several locations across Pakistan.
Provided that there shall be no restriction on the number of terms for the office of the Prime Minister.
Provinces would have the option of leaving the union entirely, and there would be an interim government with representation from the Congress and the League.
Provincial and local governments have arrested journalists and closed newspapers that report on matters perceived as socially offensive or critical of the government or military.
Provincial assembly elections were also postponed in the constituencies of PK-22 and PK-91 (both in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) due to the deaths of candidates there.
Provincial elections were held occasionally.
Provincial ratios of Standing Committee Chairs are: Balochistan 6:12, KP 3:31, Punjab 10:14, Sindh 2:17.
Provincial residents were British subjects, while subjects of princely state rulers were considered British protected persons instead.
Provisions in the Pakistan Citizenship Act, 1951 reflect this and provided a pathway for migrants to automatically acquire a status matching the country of their choice post-partition.
Public anxiety about the weakness of Pakistani education led to large-scale federal support for science education and research by both Bhutto and Sharif.
Public criticism of Gohar's personal wealth and that of the President increased.
Public enterprises "became a device to extend political patronage to those that the regime favoured, to pay political debts, or to accumulate power".
Public opinion regarding LGBTQ politics is complex.
Public protests were mounted against Musharraf.
Public support for the Muslim League led by Nurul Amin began to threaten President Mirza who was becoming unpopular, especially in West Pakistan.
Published in 1917, this group of poems has as its main themes the ideal community, Islamic ethical and social principles, and the relationship between the individual and society.
Punjab became the first province to take practical steps in the implementation of the Act.
Punjab is generally considered as the most important political province and has been used by major parties such as the PML(N) and PTI in the past to gain legitimacy and as a political stronghold.
Punjab was the richest province and received more federal funding than the other provinces of Pakistan, contributing to economical inequality.
Punjab, Sindh, and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) were all set to conduct the polls.
Punjabis argued that East Pakistan's majority was a consequence of the high percentage of Bengali Hindus in the province who were not involved in the state's decision-making processes.
Purdah is most likely to be practiced among the Pashtuns and the Muslim Rajputs.
Purdah norms are followed in few communities of Pakistan.
Qadri had fatally shot Salman Taseer over his opposition to blasphemy laws.
Qatl e Amd (culpable homicide), rape, defamation dacoity etc.
Qaumi Assembly (English: National Assembly of Pakistan) is the lower house of the parliament.
Qazf does not require such strong evidence.
Qualifications to be served as a supreme court justice are strictly imposed that are based on merit, personal intellectualism, and experiences as a judge in the high courts.
R. J. Rummel gives a prudent estimate of 150,000 killed.
R.J. Rummel cites estimates ranging from one to three million people killed.
RAW helped to organize, train and arm these insurgents.
RCD became defunct after the Iranian Revolution, and a Pakistani-Turkish initiative led to the founding of the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO) in 1985.
Radcliffe wrote in his report that he knew that neither side would be happy with his award; he declined his fee for the work.
Radio channels are numerous and considered a very important source of information - especially in the rural areas.
Radio communications between the fighting units were operated by the Pakistan Army.
Rahimuddin gave Mujib the death sentence, but President Yahya put the verdict into abeyance.
Rahman was arrested on the night of 25–26 March 1971 at about 1:30 am (as per Radio Pakistan's news on 29 March 1971).
Rai states that the state elections were conducted in Jammu and Kashmir, but except for the 1977 and 1983 elections no state election was fair.
Raja Pervaiz Ashraf became the prime minister and remained in office until 2013.
Raja Zafar-ul-Haq, Sir Anjam Khan, Zafer Ali Shah and Sardar Mohsin Abbasi were the only supporters left after the first six months.
Rajiv returned on a bilateral visit six months later.
Rank are shortlisted by respective Services Headquarters and selected against this quota after the interview process.
Rape in Pakistan came to international attention after the politically sanctioned rape of Mukhtaran Bibi.
Rape most often occurs during crackdowns, cordon-and-search operations during which men are held for identification in parks or schoolyards while security forces search their homes.
Rapes and other crimes were also committed during the aftermath.
Rather than preferring neutrality, Ayub Khan worked closely to form an alliance with the United States and the western world.
Rather they are appointed and serve in operations involving military logistics, staff and senior administrative offices, particularly in the regional and central headquarters.
Ratified unanimously on 19 April 1973, the Constitution came into full effect on 14 August 1973.
Rattanbai defied her family and nominally converted to Islam, adopting (though never using) the name Maryam Jinnah, resulting in a permanent estrangement from her family and Parsi society.
Ravindranath and 16 Grenadiers, the Indian forces had to carry out several assaults in difficult terrain.
Reaction to the defeat and dismemberment of half the nation was a shocking loss to top military and civilians alike.
Realising the threat to her premiership posed by an unsympathetic president, Bhutto ensured that a PPP member, Farooq Leghari, was nominated and duly elected to the presidency in November.
Reasoning with their isolation, the socialist politicians felt that the party had now moved away from the original ideas it was founded on by Zulfikar Ali Bhutto in 1967.
Reasons for India's increased coverage included the greater number of privately owned electronic media in India compared to Pakistan and relatively greater transparency in the Indian media.
Rebel forces from the western districts of the State and the Pakistani Pakhtoon tribesmen[note 4][note 5] made rapid advances into the Baramulla sector.
Received Padma Shri, in 1972 in the civil-service category for his efforts during the war.
Recent press speculation suggests that Dr. Khan's uranium enrichment designs were exchanged with the Chinese for uranium hexafluoride (UF6) and some highly enriched weapons-grade uranium.
Recent rankings have described Pakistan as the country that is most under Chinese political influence.
Recent report from Reporters without borders implies considerable improvement in the freedom of press compared to the preceding years.
Recently U.S. stopped military aid to Pakistan, which was about US$2 billion per year.
Recently a new Pakistani impression has been published in 2017.
Recently, the Peoples Party has adopted privatisation and small-scale nationalisation policies, with centrist economic and socially progressive agendas.
Reciprocating in the same period, General Zia invited Bhutto of becoming the first and only civilian Colonel Commandant of the Armoured Corps.
Reconciliation was partly a response to the Clash of Civilisations theory that had been popularised by the American political scientist Samuel P. Huntington during the 1990s.
Records indicate that the Pakistani tribals beheaded many Hindu and Sikh civilians in Jammu and Kashmir.
Reforms were made to introduce fiscal conservatism, supply-side economics, bioconservatism and religious conservatism in Pakistan.
Regarding Khan's personal accounts and views, the prime minister preferred a "harder diplomatic" and "less military stance".
Regarding the blasphemy laws, Musharraf said that Pakistan is sensitive to religious issues and that the blasphemy law should stay.
Regarding the rumors of separation, in 2008 Bhutto's friend Victoria Schofield said that the marriage should not be judged by ordinary standards.
Relations between Bhutto and Leghari had declined after she suggested he had been involved in her brother's murder.
Relations between Indians and British were strained in 1919 when the Imperial Legislative Council extended emergency wartime restrictions on civil liberties; Jinnah resigned from it when it did.
Relations between Pakistan and India have also resumed through platforms such as media and communications.
Relations between Pakistan and the Slovak Republic are cordial and friendly.
Relations between Sharif and President Khan also soured and the prime minister came under pressure to resign from the armed forces.
Relations between her parents were however strained during her childhood; Zulfikar embarked on extra-marital affairs with other women, and when Nusrat objected he had her thrown out of their house.
Relations between the pair were further strained when Musharraf declared a state of emergency and suspended the constitution in November, at which point Bhutto was visiting Dubai.
Relations between the two countries began when Pakistan recognized Kazakhstan on 20 December 1991.
Relations between the two countries strengthened after Cuba provided humanitarian assistance to the victims of the 2005 Kashmir earthquake.
Relations between these two countries have been strained in the past, because of Pakistan's close ties to America and its support for the Afghan rebels during the invasion by the USSR.
Relations have become more strained after the Afghan government began openly accusing Pakistan of using its ISI spy network in aiding the Taliban and other militants.
Relations with China, Russia, Iran and Turkey, are the central and the strongest proponents of the Peoples Party's foreign policy.
Relations with India soured and Bhutto sponsored aggressive measures against India at the United Nations.
Relations with Israel—which had discreetly aided India with ordnance supply and materiel such as unmanned aerial vehicles, laser-guided bombs, and satellite imagery—also were bolstered.
Relations with Russia improved in 2012, following a secret trip by the foreign minister Hina Rabbani Khar.
Relations with neighboring China were strengthened, but his alignment with the US worsened relations with the Soviet Union in 1962.
Relations with the Soviet Union were eventually normalized when the Soviets facilitated a peace treaty between Pakistan and India in 1965, and reached a trade treaty with Pakistan the following year.
Relief work continued in the field, but long-term planning was curtailed.
Relieving of General Karamat plummeted Sharif's own public approvals and his relations with the military, as even his senior Cabinet ministers were in disagreement of Sharif's decision.
Religion-related offences on the territory of modern Pakistan were first codified by the British Raj in 1860, and were expanded in 1927.
Religious minorities claimed that government actions to stem the problem were inadequate.
Religious minorities were expected to stay put in the states they found themselves residing in.
Religious parties also criticised Bhutto and dubbed the crackdown as anti-Islamic.
Reportedly Bhutto asked for time to prepare the people of Pakistan and the National Assembly for a final settlement.
Reportedly, Shah Nawaz Bhutto had seen her dancing and had proposed, eventually marrying her.
Reportedly, thousands of PTI workers have been arrested due to their alleged involvement in violent attacks on government institutions across the country after 9 May.
Reporters Without Borders has ranked Pakistan number 158 out of 180 countries listed in its Press Freedom Index of 2014.
Reporters Without Borders put Pakistan 145 out of the 180 countries ranked in its 2020 Press Freedom Index.
Reporters without borders in its 2020 Press Freedom Index ranked Pakistan number 145 out of 180 countries based on freedom of the press.
Reports by the Indian government state 219 Kashmiri pandits were killed and around 140,000 migrated due to millitancy while over 3000 remained in the valley.
Reports claimed he visited Pakpattan several times in July to meet Maryam Riaz Wattoo, sister of his spiritual guide Bushra Bibi.
Reports claimed that Nawaz suffered four angina attacks and his family complained that the Imran Khan government was not allowing him time for medical treatment.
Reports indicated that police increasingly ignored protection letters; in one case, officers tore up a resettlement document and evicted an individual despite his pending case.
Reports suggest that more and more women rushed to join the march until the crowd was scattered.
Reports surfaced that Nawaz had nearly been sentenced to execution.
Repression and subjugation in tribal areas of Pakistan led to heavy fighting in Warsk with 400 al-Qaeda operatives in March 2004.
Republican Congressmen Ted Poe and Dana Rohrabacher moved a bill in the US Congress on 21 September to designate Pakistan as a state sponsor of terrorism.
Requests for the body to be exhumed for an autopsy were rejected by Zardari.
Residential halls of the University of Dacca were particularly targeted.
Resigning under a threat of dismissal by Mirza, Suhrawardy was succeeded by I. I. Chundrigar in 1957.
Responding to President Carter, Bhutto launched a more aggressive and serious diplomatic offensive on the United States and the Western world over the nuclear issues.
Responding to US embargo, Nawaz announced that Pakistan had no atomic bomb, and would sign the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty if India did as well.
Responding to this, Pervez Musharraf said, "It hurts me when an ex-premier undermines his own forces", and claimed that Indian casualties were more than that of Pakistan.
Restrictions on holding multiple nationalities were relaxed in 1972.
Riding a wave of anger against Ayub, Bhutto traveled across Pakistan, delivering political speeches.
Riffat Arif, also known as Sister Zeph, is a teacher, women's activist and philanthropist from Gujranwala.
Rimal Ali has performed as an actress and model in many music videos to further her career.
Rizvi further accused Khoosat of blasphemy.
Romana Bashir, Catholic woman activist since 1997 in interfaith harmony and women's education.
Romania has an embassy in Islamabad and an honorary consulate in Lahore.
Roughly two weeks after the 1971 winter war, on 20 January 1972, Bhutto convened a conference of nuclear scientists and engineers at Multan.
Rukhsana Parveen and Sofia Jawed became first Pakistani women to bag international medals in boxing.
Rumors became more substantiated when Hameed attended the National Security Committee meeting instead of the expected new director general.
Rumors of an impending coup d'état by junior military officers against President Yahya Khan swept the country.
Rumors quickly circulated that the results in key constituencies were issued directly from the Prime Minister's office.
Rumuz-i-Bekhudi complements the emphasis on the self in Asrar-e-Khudi and the two collections are often put in the same volume under the title Asrar-i-Rumuz (Hinting Secrets).
Rural and tribal areas of Pakistan have an increasingly high rate of poverty and alarmingly low literacy rates.
Rural and urban areas across East Pakistan saw extensive military operations and air strikes to suppress the tide of civil disobedience that formed after the 1970 election stalemate.
Russia also played an integral role to ease off the nuclear 2001 Indo-Pakistan tensions.
Russia condemned the 1999 Pakistani coup d'état against Nawaz Sharif that removed him from power.
Russia has long been the largest supplier of arms to India, which is the world's top arms buyer.
Russia is also interested in joining CPEC, which will benefit CPEC and strengthen Pakistan's economy.
Russia maintains an embassy in the capital of Pakistan, Islamabad, and Pakistan has an embassy in Moscow in Russia.
Russia vowed its support for Pakistan in its struggle against the Taliban militants.
Russia was still holding talks with Pakistan on the supply of the combat helicopters, and had lifted its embargo on the arms supply to Pakistan.
Russia's Deputy Prime Minister Alexey Overchuk arrived in Pakistan for a two-day official visit from September 18 to 19.
Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov also participated in the consultations.
Russian president Vladimir Putin declared Pakistan as one of its primary partners in South Asia.
SAARC must capture the imagination of our peoples and contribute to creating strong and mutually beneficial bonds.
SCP; Urdu: عدالتِ عظمیٰ پاکستان, romanised: 'Adālat-e-'Uzmā Pākistān) is the supreme judicial authority and the apex court of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
SHRC also accused Indian army of forced labour.
SHRC stated that about 574 of these bodies have already been identified as those of disappeared locals.
SSP, founded in 2013, was one of the few forums exclusively created for women to speak freely about issues particular to their identities.
Sabotaging or disrupting the work of a police officer or Government official could result in imprisonment of 1 year under the new law.
Saddam's government provided support for Baloch separatists in Pakistan, hoping their conflict would spread to rival Iran.
Said Akbar Babrak was an Afghan national from the Pashtun Zadran tribe.
Salam later won the Nobel Prize in Physics for developing the theory for the unification of the weak nuclear and electromagnetic forces.
Salam's departure slowed down nuclear weapons research as Dr. Mubashir Hassan, now Bhutto's appointed Science Advisor, focused more on politics than scientific research.
Salman specifically wanted a Pakistani military contingent to deploy to the kingdom to defend the borders.
Samaldas Gandhi formed a government-in-exile, the Arzi Hukumat (in Urdu: Arzi: Transitional, Hukumat: Government) of the people of Junagadh.
Same-sex sexual activity is illegal in Pakistan.
Samiul Haq (of the JUI-S) is the leader of the Darul Uloom Haqqania madrassa in Akora Khattak, from where many of the top leaders of Taliban commanders and leaders graduated.
Sana Mir is captain of the Pakistan women's cricket team.
Sana Munir is another well known writer.
Sanaullah also rejected them as grievous.
Sania Nishtar, the first female cardiologist and the only woman Interim Cabinet Member 2013, is globally recognized for her work and accomplishments in health policy advocacy.
Sanjay Tickoo, who heads the KPSS, an organisation which looks after Pandits who remain in the Valley, says the situation is complex.
Sardar Patel, India's Home Minister, felt that if Junagadh was permitted to go to Pakistan, it would create communal unrest across Gujarat.
Satellite imagery from the Federal Bureau of Investigation suggest the existence of several terrorist camps in Pakistan, with at least one militant admitting to being trained in the country.
Saudi Arabia has also provided extensive religious and educational aid to Pakistan.
Saudi Arabia is the largest source of petroleum for Pakistan.
Saudi Arabia remains a major destination for immigration amongst Pakistanis, the number of whom living in Saudi Arabia stands between 900,000 and 1 million.
Saudi Arabia suggested that if Pakistan had allowed a democratic-socialist woman leader, Bhutto, to return to the country, then the conservative Nawaz should be permitted to return as well.
Saudi Arabia was shocked at the news of the coup.
Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz al-Saud arrived in Pakistan on 15 February to meet Nawaz and vowed to enhance work between the two countries.
Schedules are lists in the Constitution that categorise and tabulate bureaucratic activity and policy of the Government.
Scholar Prem Shankar Jha states that the Maharaja had decided, as early as April 1947, that he would accede to India if it was not possible to stay independent.
Scholar Robin James Moore states there is "little doubt" that Pashtuns were involved in border raids all along the Punjab border from the Indus to the Ravi.
Scholar Sumantra Bose, on the other hand.
Scholars have noted considerable movement of Pashtun tribes during September–October.
Scholars have suggested that India was never seriously intent on holding a plebiscite, and the withdrawal came to signify a vindication of their belief.
School textbooks and libraries were overhauled to remove un-Islamic material.
Seats are allocated to each of the four provinces, the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, and Islamabad Capital Territory on the basis of population.
Second Indian Director General of the Indian Ordnance Factories.
Secondly, comprehensive opinions and orders are bound together in paperback form in which the final version of the Court's opinions appears which is called a preliminary print of "Annual Report".
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said Pakistan is paying a "big price for supporting the U.S. war against terror groups.
Sectarian violence also broke out between Bengalis and Urdu-speaking Biharis.
Sectarian violence became a recurring feature of the Muharram month every year, with sectarian violence between Sunnis and Shias taking place in 1986 in Parachinar.
Section 377 of the Pakistan Penal Code (PPC) defines 'carnal intercourse against the order of nature', as punishable by a fine and/or imprisonment for a period of 2 years to life.
Secular bloggers started facing kidnappings, and the government-initiated advertising campaigns encouraging citizens to identify potential blasphemers in their midst.
Security also recovered two anti-aircraft guns, from which no shots had been fired.
Security expert Ihsanullah Tipu noted the attack’s ideological implications, as ISKP follows the Salafist school, while the Afghan Taliban adheres to Deoband teachings.
Security forces in Jammu and Kashmir fired live ammunition on the protesters, resulting in 112 deaths.
Security forces routinely violate human rights in the course of counter-terrorism operations in Balochistan and elsewhere.
Security responsibilities the Parliament House has been shifted from Frontier Corps to the new force.
Security situation of the journalist has improved and the number of journalist killed in Pakistan has also declined considerably.
Seeking to advance women's rights, in her second term Bhutto signed Pakistan to the international Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women.
Sehnsa and Throchi were lost after some fighting.
Senator Dr. Noor Jahan Panezai took oath on 21 March 1988 as the only woman member in the Senate of Pakistan for the term from 1988-1991.
Senator Samia Usman Fatah took oath on 6 August 1973 as the only woman member in the first Senate of Pakistan who served for the term from 1973 to 1975.
Senators Asifa Farooqi and Aziza Humayun were elected on general seats and they took oath on 6 August 1975 as the only two women members out of 45 in the Senate for the term (1975-1977).
Senators Fiza Junejo and Nasreen Jalil were elected as the members of the Senate for the term (1994-1997).
Senators are elected for six year terms, half of which are elected every three years.
Senior PTI members lead the march from Lahore, the capital of Punjab.
Senior academic scientists had direct access to Bhutto, who kept him informed about every inch of the development.
Senior journalist Iftikhar Ahmad aired a series of televised interviews on Geo News with those who played significant and often controversial roles in Bhutto's death.
Senior military leaders and prominent socialists plotted to overthrow the government of Ali Khan.
Senior officers' classes were delayed until midnight, and none were allowed to leave until late in the evening before the coup, during which arrangements were made.
Senior scientists and engineers attributed this to "Nawaz's personal corruption" that affected national security.
Sensing a deteriorating military scenario, diplomatic isolation, and the risks of a larger conventional and nuclear war, Sharif ordered the Pakistani army to vacate the Kargil heights.
Sensing another war with India, Khan met Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru to sign the Liaquat-Nehru Pact in 1950.
Sensing the seriousness of such threat, Bhutto arranged a meeting between Munir Ahmad Khan and Ayub Khan at The Dorchester in London.
Separate electorates for Hindus and Christians were established in 1985 even though Christian and Hindu leaders complained that they felt excluded from the county's political process.
Separate electorates for Hindus and Christians were established in 1985—a policy originally proposed by Islamist leader Abul A'la Maududi.
Serving as the ceremonial head of the federation, the president is bound to act on advice of the prime minister and the federal cabinet.
Session court judge has barred Imran Khan from contesting the elections for the time period of five years and sentenced him to three years in Prison.
Seven political parties were in the race.
Seventy-five founding members pledged allegiance to Khadim Hussain Rizvi.
Seventy-six (76) women candidates including sixteen on general seats and sixty on reserved seats were elected as members of the 13th National Assembly, serving for five years term from 2008 to 2013.
Several cases were overseen by 29th Chief Justice, Qazi Faez Isa.
Several divisions were ordered to halt counterinsurgency activity and position to engage the infiltrators.
Several female journalists have reported harassment by party workers.
Several human rights groups have highlighted the increased phenomenon of Hindu girls, particularly in Karachi, being kidnapped from their families and forced to convert to Islam.
Several international agencies and the UN have reported human rights violations in Indian-administered Kashmir.
Several key ideas of the philosophy of John Locke and Islamic provisions on civil rights were interchanged in the Constitution.
Several leaked videos of persons supposed to be caught in the act of rigging the polls went viral and caught the eye of the mainstream media becoming topics of discussion in days to follow.
Several members of the European Parliament urged the government of Pakistan to establish democratic institutions and the rule of law in the area.
Several military interventions have disrupted Pakistan's democracy.
Several minority communities, such as the Ahmadiyya have been attacked in pogroms in Pakistan over the years.
Several months after Bhutto's death, a series of Pakistani postage stamps were announced to mark her 55th birthday.
Several news reports and scholarly works have described his political career as marked by a perceived closeness to Pakistan's military establishment.
Several others were injured in the ambush, reflecting the broader climate of fear in conflict-prone tribal regions.
Several protesters were killed, and the movement gained further support throughout East Pakistan.
Several sections of Pakistan's Penal Code comprise its blasphemy laws.
Several senior Indian army officers were killed in action but the Tololing peak and surrounding points like points P4590 were captured.
Several universities and public buildings in Pakistan bear Jinnah's name.
Several universities and public buildings in Pakistan have been named after her.
Several universities have also reported a gradual rise in female enrollment in STEM programs, particularly in urban centers.
Sexual abuse of this kind has led some athletes to commit suicide due to inaction of authorities in pursuing the suspects.
Sexual encounters between same-sex partners are more accessible in Lahore, in particular for gay and bisexual men.
Shah called in the army to curb the violence on the Hindus, but it had little effect.
Shah, and Justice Moh'd Haleem, who had the moderate and liberal leanings in their jurisprudence strongly disagreed with Bhutto's sentence of Capital punishment.
Shahid Khaqan Abbasi became Prime Minister afterwards until mid 2018.
Shahida's first husband, Khushi Muhammad, had divorced her and the papers had been signed in front of a magistrate.
Shahida's second marriage was ruled invalid.
Shahla Zia, human rights activist and lawyer, co-founder of AGHS with Asma Jahngir and Hina Jilani, and also co-founder of Aurat Foundation with Nigar Ahmad.
Shared geography and history have culminated in a unique synthesis of cultures and traditions.
Sharia law carries heavy penalties for homosexuality from imprisonment for 2–10 years or for life, or of 100 lashes or stoning to death if the person is married.
Shariati, who has been described as a core ideologue for the Iranian Revolution, described Iqbal as a figure who brought a message of "rejuvenation", "awakening" and "power" to the Muslim world.
Sharif also extended his apology to General Karamat and Admiral Fasih Bokhari for overlooking him for the appointment of the Chairman joint chiefs.
Sharif also launched judicial proceedings against Bhutto.
Sharif also met Yu Zhengsheng, Meng Jianzhu and Xu Qiliang.
Sharif and Musharraf dispute on who was responsible for the Kargil conflict and Pakistan's withdrawal.
Sharif and his supporters have maintained that the charges were politically motivated, with Sharif himself claiming that the case was more of a personal vendetta than a fair trial.
Sharif attributed the plan to Musharraf and "just two or three of his cronies", a view shared by some Pakistani writers who have stated that only four generals, including Musharraf, knew of the plan.
Sharif benefited from growing Punjabi chauvinism toward the country's Sindhi minority, as well as a perception that Bhutto—a Sindhi—was attacking the Punjab.
Sharif continued Bhutto's cultural policies, though he did allow access to Indian media.
Sharif continued to maintain his ties with Iqbal Beg, who was arrested and subsequently released on bail as a result of his association with Sharif.
Sharif had attempted to reduce the president's powers.
Sharif had been a proponent of laissez faire economics and his government had promoted privatisation.
Sharif had championed the cause of the judges since their dismissal, and he and Zardari had supported the reinstatement of judges in their campaigns.
Sharif intervened in the Gulf War in 1991, and ordered an operation against the liberal forces in Karachi in 1992.
Sharif ordered Jinnah International Airport to be sealed to prevent the landing of a PIA flight carrying General Musharraf, which then circled the skies over Karachi for several hours.
Sharif ordered her to be placed under house arrest to prevent her instigating any uprisings.
Sharif returned to Pakistan in September 2007 and was immediately arrested and taken into custody at the airport.
Sharif served two years to fulfill Imran Khan's term until the 2024 Pakistani General Election.
Sharif signed an agreement with Musharraf and his military government and his family was exiled to Saudi Arabia in December 2000.
Sharif travelled to Saudi Arabia for the last 10 days of Ramadan.
Sharif was acquitted in 2009 from the 1999 hijacking case and in 2014 acquitted of the money laundering and corruption cases from an accountability court.
Sharif was arrested, found guilty of hijacking and terrorism charges, and sentenced to life in prison.
Sharif was put under house arrest and later exiled to Saudi Arabia on his personal request and under a contract.
Sharif was re-elected for a third non-consecutive term on 5 June 2013, which is a record in the history of Pakistan.
Sharif was removed from the party's presidency and the position was handed over to Dr. Kalsoum Nawaz, wife of Sharif.
Sharif was sentenced to 10 years in prison in July of 2018 for his involvement in real estate dealings in Panama.
Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) won eight provincial assembly seats, while the PPP won seven provincial seats.
Sharif's Punjabi authority refused to accept the federal officials whom Bhutto posted there.
Sharif's attempt to curtail the powers of the President and the judiciary led to a confrontation, culminating in the controversial removal of Chief Justice Sajjad Ali Shah.
Sharif's decision antagonised the Pakistan Army and rumours of a possible coup began emerging soon afterward.
Sharif's defence team blamed the military for intentionally providing their lawyers with inadequate protection.
Sharif's new party, the Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz), came second with 73 seats.
Sharif's order to divert the flight, PK805, endangered the lives of all passengers on board as the plane had limited fuel.
Sharif's victory in NA-130, which is widely regarded as one of Pakistan's most competitive constituencies, has been called into question.
Sharif, maintains that the charges were politically motivated.
Shaukat Aziz became prime minister in 2004.
Shazia Hidayat was the sole woman Olympian on the Pakistan team at the 2000 Summer Olympic Games and the second woman to represent Pakistan in an Olympic event.
Shazia alleged that she was forced by the government to leave the country.
She accompanied him everywhere, including a hunting trip to Peshawar and a cricket tour to Australia.
She added that continued efforts were needed to bring more people under taxation and to ensure that all paid their fair share.
She also adopted Nawaz Sharif's conservative privatisation policies in order to secure funding from the United States and the World Bank, but received a harsh opposition from within the party.
She also announced plans to set up women's police stations, courts and women's development banks.
She also described the Indian prime minister Indira Gandhi as a political inspiration.
She also had two daughters, Bakhtawar Bhutto (born 25 January 1990) and Aseefa (born 3 February 1993).
She also promised to repeal controversial Hudood laws that curtailed the rights of women.
She also refrained from assuring Nixon that India would follow Pakistan's suit if it withdrew from India's borders.
She also said "Certainly women will be encouraged and feel strengthened to speak up against gender based violence.
She and her mother put out a book about their father and encouraged PPP supporters to demonstrate in support of him.
She and her second husband, Sarwar were charged with adultery.
She argued that Huntington's theory denied the universality of democratic ideals and created a "self-fulfilling prophecy of fear" whereby it provoked the conflicts that it claimed to predict.
She argued that Trump violated international law by bombing Iran.
She arrived at Lahore Airport in April 1986, where she was greeted by a large crowd.
She assured him that she didn't want war with Pakistan, but he did not believe her.
She attributed this to the fact that—in her words—she "symbolised a new generation.
She became a campus tour guide with the Crimson Key Society and the social secretary of her dormitory, Eliot House.
She became a global icon for women's rights, and inspired many Pakistani girls and women by her example.
She became prime minister at a particularly young age and had no prior political or other cabinet experience.
She brought her mother and three children to live there with her, settling into a villa in the Emirates Hills given to her by the Emirati government.
She brought in Scotland Yard to investigate, partly to quell rumors that she had ordered the killing, although the case remained unsolved.
She called on Sharif to retaliate with a series of Pakistani military tests.
She called on Western countries to push for a return to electoral democracy in Pakistan.
She called on the United Nations to oversee the Kashmir plebiscite originally promised in 1948.
She challenged the court ruling and secured a retrial which overturned the previous ruling.
She claimed that were she to return to Pakistan then she would be imprisoned and then murdered.
She consistently presented an image of respect and loyalty for her husband, throughout the many accusations and periods of imprisonment he faced.
She criticised US nonproliferation policy and demanded that the United States honor its contractual obligation.
She decided on Dubai because Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, the President of the United Arab Emirates, had been a longstanding friend of her family.
She did not repeal the Hudood Ordinances, which remained in law until 2006.
She disagreed with her father's nationalisation and socialist economics.
She disagreed with her father's socialist economic policies, and when in power sought to privatise various industries that had been nationalised in the 1970s.
She encountered activists involved in second wave feminism although was sceptical of some of the views expressed within the movement.
She escaped unharmed but there were 136 dead and at least 450 people were injured.
She established family courts with female judges to deal with child custody and family issues, and in 1994–95 the first women judges were appointed to the Supreme Courts of Peshawar and Sindh.
She exercised tough policies to ban Indian media in the country, while promoting the television industry to produce dramas, films, artistic programs and music.
She gave him a monopoly on the country's gold imports, a post that earned him $10 million, which he deposited in an Indian bank.
She had a love of French and Italian cuisine, and was a great fan of the music of American singer Neil Diamond.
She had been elected chairperson for life, which she remained until her assassination on 27 December 2007.
She had her own charisma when she emerged in the 1980s as a young, articulate, well-educated, and well-spoken woman.
She had the rare quality of humor, which she never lost in spite of leading an uncertain and challenging life.
She hand-picked officers and promoted them based on their pro-democracy views while the President gave constitutional authorisation for their promotion.
She has been a vocal proponent of stronger ties between Pakistan and Latin America.
She has been fighting ever since to raise awareness of the virus, and has been highly critical of the Government's efforts.
She invited Indian prime minister Rajiv Gandhi and his wife Sonia as her guests for a three-day visit in Islamabad following the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation summit.
She involved herself in campaigns against American involvement in the Vietnam War, joining a Moratorium Day protest on Boston Common.
She is currently serving as the Ambassador of Pakistan to Argentina, Uruguay, Peru and Ecuador.
She is the only player to have scored more than 100 goals in her club career.
She kept the Bhutto family name rather than taking that of her new husband.
She later claimed he was the father and kept a framed photograph of him.
She later related that to find out more she contacted key scientists in the program, such as A. Q. Khan, herself, bypassing the president and military hierarchy.
She lived and travelled with him, and became a close advisor.
She made it clear: justice is not a privilege—it’s a right.
She maintained that the charges against her and her husband were purely political.
She moved to Iran, but after Zulfikar prevented her children from joining her there, she returned to Pakistan six months later, settling in Karachi.
She nevertheless made friends, who later described her as a humorous and intellectually curious individual.
She nevertheless maintained that the country's economic problems were the fault of Sharif's previous administration.
She opened a series of all-female police stations, staffed with female officers, to make women feel safer in coming forward to report crimes.
She oversaw a tough stance to bring political stability, which, with her fiery rhetoric, earned her the nickname "Iron Lady" from her rivals.
She painted his portrait during their relationship at his request.
She personally stated that her electoral victory was "the tipping point in the debate raging in the Muslim world on the role of women in Islam".
She pleased him by revoking Zia's offer of the Nishan-e-Pakistan award to the former Indian leader Morarji Desai.
She read a number of self-help books, telling a friend that "for all the lows in my life, those self-help books helped me survive, I can tell you".
She remained head of the PPP, and spent much of her time in exile fighting the corruption charges that were being brought against her and her husband.
She remained in Dubai for eight years, for five of which her husband remained imprisoned in Pakistan.
She removed many of the constraints imposed on non-governmental organisations, and introduced measures to lift the media censorship introduced by Zia's military administrations.
She requested that the US or UK take responsibility for her security, but they refused, and her security detail was instead organised by Musharraf.
She responded by deploying Shaheen-I missiles; however, they were not armed.
She returned in 1986 and — influenced by Thatcherite economics — transformed the PPP's platform from a socialist to a liberal one, before leading it to victory in the 1988 election.
She returned to Pakistan in 1977 during her father Zulfikar Ali Bhutto's socialist government, shortly before her father was ousted in a military coup and later executed.
She revealed for the first time that Pakistan had achieved parity with India in its capacity to produce nuclear weapons and their delivery capability.
She sought to replace the chair of the joint chiefs of staff, Iftikhar Ahmed Sirohey, but President Khan refused to permit this.
She spent much of her second term abroad, making 24 foreign trips during its first twelve months.
She started when she was sixteen, which was younger than normal, but Zulfikar had pulled strings to allow her premature admittance.
She studied at Harvard University and the University of Oxford, where she served as President of the Oxford Union.
She subsequently also accused Sharif of backing the Salafi jihadist militant group al-Qaeda, established by bin Laden.
She talked about how she had to face major beatings and a lot of discrimination.
She termed those cases as a part of Sharif's plan to eliminate her from politics.
She then married and devoted herself to raising a family.
She then publicly denounced Musharraf, fearing that any association with him would damage her credibility.
She told the Indian press, that Pakistan "cannot afford to negate the parity we maintain with India".
She toured many countries in a bid to create awareness of the Pakistani atrocities against Bengalis.
She was a close friend of Begum Nusrat Bhutto.
She was also a founding member of the Council of Women World Leaders, a group established in 1996.
She was also elected as the first woman Deputy Chairman Senate in 1991.
She was an accomplished orator, having honed her skill at public speaking while president of the Oxford Debating Society.
She was awarded the Tazir punishment of one hundred lashes and three years of rigorous imprisonment.
She was buried at her family mausoleum in Garhi Khuda Bakhsh.
She was charged with adultery and the court considered her pregnancy as the proof of adultery.
She was elected twice to the office of Prime Minister.
She was given the name of an aunt who had died young.
She was in Dubai while the PPP contested the October 2002 general election; it received the largest number of votes but only 63 seats in the National Assembly.
She was in London at the time of the judgment, and rather than returning to Pakistan she relocated to Dubai.
She was kept for a time in Karachi before being moved to Sukkur prison and then back again to Karachi.
She was not able to repeal a single one of Zia-ul-Haq's Islamisation laws.
She was officially sworn in on 19 October 1993.
She was sentenced to fifteen lashes, five years imprisonment, and a fine of 1,000 rupees.
She was sworn in as the Prime Minister of Pakistan on 2 December 1988.
She was the fashionable young daughter of his friend Sir Dinshaw Petit, and was part of an elite Parsi family of Bombay.
She was the first Muslim woman to contest the presidency in 1965, as a candidate of the Combined Opposition Party.
She was the first woman elected to head a democratic government in a Muslim-majority country.
She was the founder of the All Pakistan Women's Association.
She was the youngest woman ever to be elected the Head of Government and the first woman to be elected as the Head of Government of a Muslim country.
She was then sent to the Convent of Jesus and Mary in Karachi and from there to the Jesus and Mary Convent, a boarding school in Murree.
She was told she cannot be a lesbian if she is a Muslim and was told to leave her university and workplace because of her sexuality.
She was too inclined to listen to her small kitchen cabinet, which very often consisted of people who would say what they thought she wanted to hear.
She was unable to provide enough evidence that she was raped.
Shehbaz Sharif was elected Prime Minister of Pakistan two days later, on 11 April.
Sheikh Abdullah advocated complete independence and had allegedly joined hands with US to conspire against India.
Sheikh Abdullah revived the National Conference, and Mirza Afzal Beg's Plebiscite Front was dissolved in the NC.
Sheikh Abdullah took oath as Prime Minister of the state on 17 March 1948.
Sheikh Abdullah was released and returned to Srinagar where he was accorded a great welcome by the people of the valley.
Sheikh Abdullah was said to have ruled the state in an undemocratic and authoritarian manner during this period.
Sheikh Abdullah went to Pakistan in the spring of 1964.
Sheikh Abdullah's National Conference won all 75 seats in a rigged election.
Sheikh Mujib also called upon the people to resist the occupation forces through a radio message.
Sheikh Mujib replied at a press conference on 21 February, asserting that "Our stand is absolutely clear.
Sheikh Mujib was arrested and extradited to Islamabad, while the entire Awami League leadership escaped to India to set up a parallel government.
Sheikh Mujibur Rahman then launched a non-cooperation movement which effectively paralysed the state machinery in East Pakistan.
Sheikh Mujibur Rahman was arrested by the Pakistani Army.
Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the first President of Bangladesh, visited Bhutan to attend the coronation of Jigme Singye Wangchuck, the fourth King of Bhutan in June 1974.
Sheikh assumed the position of Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir again after 11 years.
Sheikh initially wanted the Constituent Assembly to decide the State's accession.
Sherani has frequently spoken out against the government's legislative efforts, particularly those related to women.
Shops owned by Hindus were also attacked in Sukkur.
Shortly after Musharraf's takeover, Musharraf issued Oath of Judges Order No.
Shortly after Pakistani independence, Afghanistan materially supported the failed armed secessionist movement headed by Mirza Ali Khan against Pakistan.
Shortly after declaring itself a nuclear weapons state, Pakistan had been humiliated diplomatically and militarily.
Shortly after taking power in 2013, Nawaz received a US$6.6 billion loan from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to avoid a balance-of-payments crisis.
Shortly after the 1965 war, Bhutto declared at a press conference, "Even if we have to eat grass, we will make a nuclear bomb.
Shortly after the burial, she was arrested and detained under house arrest in Karachi until November, at which point she was released and returned to Europe.
Shortly after the demarcation of the Durand Line, the British began connecting the region on its side of Durand line to the vast and expansive Indian railway network.
Shortly after the end of the War of 1965, he joined the elite Special Service Group (SSG).
Shortly after they agreed to a cease-fire, with each side having lost about 200 tanks.
Shortly afterward, Munir was removed as Director-General of Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) and replaced by Lt. General Faiz Hameed.
Shortly afterwards on 27 October 1958, General Ayub Khan deposed Mirza and declared himself president.
Shortly afterwards, Jinnah returned home to India in January 1915.
Shortly afterwards, in 1956, Pakistan emerged as an Islamic republic with a Muslim-majority population.
Shortly before the transfer of power, the British returned the Gilgit Agency to the Maharaja, who appointed a Dogra governor for the district and a British commander for the local forces.
Showing Indian films in Pakistan was banned starting with the 1965 war between the two countries until 2008 when the ban was partially lifted.
Shoygu held in-depth talks with Nawaz, who promised to promote multi-dimensional relations with Russia.
Sid is quoted as saying "We have to understand that by just mentioning the third gender identity on your CNIC, the state has not done enough.
Sid was helpful in the development of the show by providing advice on the preconceived notions of transgender people in the TV show Khuda Mera Bhi Hai.
Sid was hopeful that it would have a positive impact on Pakistan's societal view of transgender people, much like the photoshoot.
Sidra Sadaf, a woman cyclist won a silver medal at the 11th South Asian Games in Dhaka, Bangladesh in January 2010.
Signing of a MoU between Russia and Pakistan To further strengthen mutually advantageous cooperation in all areas of shared interest.
Similar allegations were also made by some human rights organisations.
Similar arrangements, such as the "wedding" celebrated between a Catholic novice and Jesus Christ, are known from other regions and religions.
Similar rights were to be granted to the Muslim-majority areas in the east, and unspecified protections given to Muslim minorities in other provinces.
Similarly the public universities of Pakistan have female enrollment than male.
Similarly the size of the Senate was also increased from 63 to 87 members.
Similarly, Pakistani cuisine has made inroads in the United States.
Similarly, a national study found that 21% of those residing in shelters for women (Darul Aman) had Hudood cases against them.
Similarly, another international award was given to the ECP on preparing voters list following international standards based on Unique Identifier i.e.
Similarly, another major policy document, the "Human Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy" (1999), mentioned women as a target group for poverty reduction but lacks gender framework.
Similarly, in May, 1953 elections to the Provincial legislature of Sindh were held and they were also marred by accusations of rigging.
Similarly, the Chinese state-run media has portrayed Pakistan in a favourable light in regional issues.
Similarly, the use of the word "Central" instead of "Federal" as well as the term "Superior" is also the legacy of the past.
Simultaneously, Pakistani forces began an offensive on Chhamb, similar to the offensive carried out during the Indo-Pakistani war of 1965.
Since 1947, Pakistan has had 20 prime ministers, aside from the appointed caretaker prime ministers who were only mandated to oversee the system until the election process was finished.
Since 1947, Pakistan's relations have been difficult with neighbour India over regional issues.
Since 1954, the American alliance with Pakistan caused India to move closer to the Soviet Union.
Since 1960, Pakistan was perceived in the United States as an integral bulwark against global Communism in the Cold War.
Since 1962, China has been a steady source of military equipment to the Pakistani Army, helping establish ammunition factories, providing technological assistance and modernising existing facilities.
Since 1967, Bhutto had been lobbying for the option of nuclear deterrence on different occasions.
Since 1970, Hungary has an embassy in Islamabad and an honorary consulate in Karachi.
Since 1990, 62 people have been murdered following blasphemy accusations.
Since 1993, the PML-N administrations have been widely described as the "authoritarian regime" by The Economist Democracy Index surveys.
Since 1995, Malik has renounced the use of violence and calls for strictly peaceful methods to resolve the dispute.
Since 2000, its liberal socialism and pro-Pashtun philosophy has become the integral part of the party, advocating for the regional autonomy and increased Pashtun cultural expression.
Since 2001, the Pakistan military has launched a series of military offensives against terrorist groups in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA).
Since 2002, women politicians have notable representation in the federal as well as provincial assemblies.
Since 2006, Pakistan Air Force allowed women to take part in combat roles.
Since 2013, they have also been barred from public office in Punjab.
Since 2014, terrorist attacks in Pakistan have significantly declined.
Since 2015, it is reported that 68 transgender people were murdered in Pakistan.
Since 2019, Pakistan has frozen in relations with India after India revoked the autonomy of its administered Kashmir.
Since July 2001, Pakistan has an embassy in Belgrade.
Since Pakistan and India each had weapons of mass destruction, many in the international community were concerned that if the Kargil conflict intensified, it could lead to nuclear war.
Since Pakistan joined the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation in 2017, relations between both sides have deepened.
Since Pakistan's independence on 14 August 1947, women have been active participants in parliamentary politics.
Since Zia-ul Haq's presidency, Pakistan’s Constitution has seen shifts in military control.
Since before the war, the People's Republic of China had been a major military associate of Pakistan and a military opponent of India, with whom it had fought a brief war in 1962.
Since establishment in 1947, Pakistan has had a non-symmetric federal government and is a federal parliamentary democratic republic.
Since her creation, the physical and moral existence of Pakistan was in great danger.
Since his appointment, the government faced criticism from groups opposed to government representation for religious minorities, prominently by the TLP under the guidance of Rizvi.
Since its creation in 1947, Pakistan has spent several decades under military rule (1958–1971, 1977–1988, 1999–2008).
Since its establishment in 1947, the Pakistan Army has traditionally followed the British regimental system and culture, and currently there are six organized infantry regiments.
Since its inception, the ANP has been an important ally of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP).
Since most of the Arab world was undergoing a nationalist awakening at the time, there was little attraction in Pakistan's pan-Islamic aspirations.
Since most of the Arab world was undergoing a nationalist awakening at the time, there was little attraction to Pakistan's Pan-Islamic aspirations.
Since some in the U.S. government claimed that they had caught bin Laden without Pakistani help, numerous allegations were made that the government of Pakistan had shielded bin Laden.
Since the 1960s, Bhutto had been anti-SEATO and preferred a non-aligned policy.
Since the 1970s, the traditional jirga-based law has also been in place in a few areas, and has influenced the country's judicial development.
Since the 1990s, the Peoples Party has been under intense criticism, both from its own members and the other leftists in the country, notably due to the charges of large-scale corruptions.
Since the 1990s, the factionalism has grown in the party when Murtaza Bhutto returned to Pakistan.
Since the 2010s another American socialite Cynthia D. Ritchie claims her close association with Pakistani establishment.
Since the 2022 no-confidence vote, he has been named in 186 legal cases across Pakistan, as reported in December 2024.
Since the Taliban's inception, the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) agency has been providing them with funding, training, and weaponry.
Since the advent of the 21st century, Pakistan and China have strengthened their relations through bilateral trade, military agreements and supporting each other on key issues.
Since the amendment, the president's powers include the right to pardon and the ability to suspend or moderate any sentence passed by any court or authority.
Since the commencement of its organization in 1947, the army's functionality is broadly maintained in two main branches: Combat Arms and Administrative Services.
Since the full-scale outbreak of the Russo-Ukrainian war, Russia has strengthened its cooperation with Pakistan to circumvent sanctions from the West.
Since the introduction of these vibrant TV channels, many major corruption cases and scams have been unveiled by journalists.
Since the liberalisation of electronic media in 2002, it has served as a major force in exposing corruption-related cases and scams.
Since the number of direct officers at the entry-level is few, their quotas in posts in BS-18 to BS-22 are fixed on the higher side; therefore, their promotions are fast-paced.
Since the opposition had not accepted the National Assembly elections result, they did not take oath.
Since the partition of British India in August 1947, Pakistan and India remained in contention over several issues.
Since the start of 2011, news had circulated that Musharraf would return to Pakistan before the 2013 general election.
Since the transfer of power to both countries in 1947 of the divided territory, the UN has played an extensive role in regulating and monitoring the dispute.
Since the turn of the century non-Sunni minorities as the Kalash and Ismailis have been threatened with conversion to Islam or death by the Taliban and other radical Islamic groups.
Since the two sides established their "all-weather diplomatic relations", there have been frequent exchanges between the two countries' leadership and peoples.
Since then it has declined as result of selective military operations conducted by the Pakistan Army.
Since then, Khan has campaigned against the military, blaming it for failing to stop the no-confidence motion that removed him.
Since then, Pakistan has shifted from a Semi-presidential system to a purely parliamentary government.
Since then, education for women has improved rapidly.
Since then, he has been held in Adiala Jail in Rawalpindi, where the special court conducts his trial.
Since then, relations between the two countries have been extremely cordial for the last few decades, which are influenced by their similar geopolitical and mutual interests.
Since then, the Indian team has only played against them in ICC and Asian Cricket Council events such as the Cricket World Cup, T20 World Cup, Asia Cup and ICC Champions Trophy.
Since then, the Peoples Party has been a leading proponent of democratic socialism with the mainstream agenda of social democracy, favouring semi-secular and semi-Islamic socialist principles.
Since then, the political party is run by Mr Hussain from self-imposed exile in London.
Since then, these relations have gradually developed into very close and cordial ties.
Sindh has been used as a political stronghold for the Pakistan Muslim League N (PML-N) Pakistan People's Party (PPP) and Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) since the party’s creation.
Sir Muhammad Iqbal[a] (9 November 1877 – 21 April 1938) was an Islamic philosopher and poet.
Sir Syed Ahmed Khan's family lived next door.
Six (6) women politicians were elected on general seats for the 11th National Assembly and served as MNAs for the term from 1997 to 1999.
Six subjects are compulsory, and 6 are optional.
Six women politicians were elected on reserved seats as members of the 4th National Assembly from 1965 to 1969.
Sixty-nine (69) women out of 342 members are serving in the National Assembly of Pakistan.
Small advancements were made by Pakistani troops.
So far now, about more than 300 million hits received over 8300 SMS and people checked their voting details.
So loved were his performances that he has taken to act to extremes on-air and presents his own talk show where he appears as a dragged-up character named Begum Nawazish Ali.
Social media has also proved effective in identifying corruption in mainstream media, particularly in the case of the mediagate scandal.
Social media platforms including Twitter, Facebook and others were blocked in the country.
Socialism is the highest expression of democracy and its logical fulfillment".
Socialists, intellectuals, and journalists were arrested.
Socially, it creates spaces for women to organize, share knowledge, and collectively advocate for their rights.
Societal actors also are responsible for human rights abuses.
Soldiers reportedly told her 17-year-old daughter to remove her clothes so that they could check whether she was hiding a gun.
Some 80,000 'basic democrats', as members of urban and regional councils, caucused to vote.
Some Indian and Pakistani people marry across the border at instances.
Some Pakistani and Indian officials continued to use the name "East Pakistan" until 16 December 1971.
Some Pakistani feminist groups had refused to back Bhutto's re-election because, despite her repeated promises, she had not removed the hudud ordinances that Zia's administration had introduced.
Some Police officers in Pakistan have in certain cases refused to record the complaint of women when an officer may have been involved.
Some Western observers compared the treaty to the cold war Strategic Arms Limitation Talks.
Some academics such as Rudolph Rummel and Rounaq Jahan say both sides committed genocide; others such as Richard Sisson and Leo E. Rose believe there was no genocide.
Some also work with NGOs and artisan collectives that connect them to national and international buyers, increasing their financial independence and visibility in public spheres.
Some analysts believe that the blueprint of attack was reactivated soon after Pervez Musharraf was appointed chief of army staff in October 1998.
Some analysts say that it is because intelligence agencies around the world remain secretive.
Some authors have said that a war game – that was held in March 1965 at the Institute for Defense Analyses in the United States might have encouraged Pakistan.
Some chapters and all annexures, however, were deemed to contain classified information by the government and not released.
Some consumers admitted to illegally reducing their utility bills, while others reported being harassed with inflated bills intended to solicit bribes.
Some educated urban women no longer wear the burqa.
Some estimate that the Soviet troops killed up to 2 million Afghans and raped many Afghan women.
Some experts also stated that the reforms would be impossible to enforce.
Some experts believe that following nuclear tests in 1998, the Pakistani military was emboldened by its nuclear deterrent to markedly increase coercion against India.
Some federal and provincial courts and tribunals such as Services court, Income tax & excise court, Banking court and Boards of Revenue's Tribunals are as well established in all provinces.
Some have described the violence in Punjab as a retributive genocide.
Some historians postulate that Jinnah always remained hopeful for an agreement with the Congress and never fully desired the partition of India.
Some historians such as Jalal and H. M. Seervai assert that Jinnah never wanted the partition of India—it was the outcome of the Congress leaders being unwilling to share power with the Muslim League.
Some improvements in the relations are seen with the re-opening of a series of transportation networks near the India–Pakistan border, with the most important being bus routes and railway lines.
Some like Syeda Safia Begum of Muslim Town Lahore started the first English School for Muslim Children in Muslim Town in 1935.
Some listeners misunderstood his Urdu as "Pakistan's in the bag!".
Some observers said the rulings were a continuation of the Pakistani military's engineering to keep Khan out of power in the election.
Some of her close political advisers suggested that she abandon him for the sake of her political career, but she refused.
Some of the Arab countries saw the 'Islamistan' project as a Pakistani attempt to dominate other Muslim states.
Some of the earliest reforms Khan took were to centralise the Muslim League, and he planned and prepared the Muslim League to become the leading authority of Pakistan.
Some of the funding for TTP might have come from NDS.
Some of the massacres by security forces include Gawakadal massacre, Zakoora and Tengpora massacre and Handwara massacre.
Some political analysts say that the Pakistan state policy shift and mellowing of its aggressive stance may have to do with its total failure in the Kargil War and the subsequent 9/11 attacks.
Some sources allege he gave up alcohol near the end of his life.
Some sources claim Yahya accepted Ayub's proposal on 25 March.
Some sources may refer to 5 January as the beginning of the ceasefire.
Some sources suggest that by the time he was released, he was unable to care for himself fully.
Some well known Slovak companies like Matador and Mediprogress are active in Pakistan through their agents.
Some writers have speculated that the operation's objective may also have been retaliation for India's Operation Meghdoot in 1984 that seized much of Siachen Glacier.
Some €50m were allegedly paid as "sweeteners" to various senior Pakistan Navy admirals and officers as well as the political leaders.
Some, like former statesman Roedad Khan, commend his early achievements but note a decline later on.
Sometime in August 1947, the first signs of trouble broke out in Poonch, about which diverging views have been received.
Soon after Bhutto assumed the control of the country, Bhutto released Mujibur Rehman, and put General Khan on house arrest instead.
Soon after Bhutto came to assume control of Pakistan, he made his move to establish nuclear weapons development.
Soon after Musharraf increased the role of Shaukat Aziz in parliament and helped him to secure nomination for the office of Prime Minister.
Soon after appointing a new government, Pakistan entered a war with India over Kashmir.
Soon after he arrived, Mountbatten concluded that the situation was too volatile for even that short a wait.
Soon after its passing, it was challenged in Federal Shariat Court.
Soon after taking over the country, an emergency was declared in the country.
Soon after the collapse of the Soviet Union, Benazir attempted to privatise major industries that had been nationalised in the 1970s.
Soon after the conflict, India also decided to complete the project, previously stalled by Pakistan, to fence the entire LOC.
Soon after the elections, due to grave political differences, the Province of East Pakistan seceded from West Pakistan and became Bangladesh.
Soon after the evacuation the alliance with the US came to an end when Pakistan's atomic bomb project was revealed to the world, leading to the imposition of economic sanctions by the United States.
Soon after the war had started, the United States had imposed an embargo on military aid to both India and Pakistan.
Soon after the war the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government set up an inquiry into its causes and to analyse perceived Indian intelligence failures.
Soon, Bhutto offered a technical post to Munir Ahmad Khan in PAEC in 1958 and lobbied for Abdus Salam to be appointed as Science Adviser in 1960.
Soon, he and his new wife departed to England but did not terminate his connections with the Muslim League.
South Africa is also home to more than 2,500 Pakistanis.
Southern and eastern Afghanistan is predominately Pashto-speaking, like the adjacent Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, Federally Administered Tribal Areas, and northern Balochistan regions in Pakistan.
Soviet Secretary General Nikita Khrushchev threatened to bomb Peshawar if the United States continued to operate aircraft from there against the Soviet Union.
Soviet relations with Pakistan (then part of the British Raj) dated back to 1922 after the Bolshevik Revolution.
Speaker Chaudhry Amir Hussain gave the ruling on 14 June 2003 that LFO is the part of the Constitution of Pakistan.
Specialised websites were set up to publish and archive material exposing corrupt malpractices throughout the many polling stations serving several constituencies.
Speculation was rife that the new government would need a bailout from the International Monetary Fund to restore economic stability.
Sportswomen of Pakistan have always been plagued by the patriarchal society and many have come forward to claim that coaches, selectors and others who are in position of power demand sexual favours.
Sqn Ldr Saad Hatmi who flew the captured aircraft to Sargodha, and later tested and evaluated its flight performance, presumed that Gnat was no "Sabre Slayer" when it came to dog fighting.
Sri Lanka (then called Ceylon) saw the partition of Pakistan as an example for itself and feared India might use its enhanced power against it in the future.
Sri Lanka's ties with Pakistan have always been good, ever since Pakistan established its small mission in then-Ceylon (later Sri Lanka) in circa 1948–1949.
Standard & Poor's and Moody's Corporation changed Pakistan's long-term rating to 'stable outlook'.
Standard Urdu is mutually intelligible with standard Hindi.
Stanley Wolpert writes that he sent Mujib to a bungalow in Rawalpindi, where Mujib swore upon the Quran to retire and hand over the nation to him.
Stanton stated that he had been framed because he had rebuffed pressures to convert to Islam.
Started playing street cricket at the age of five.
Starting in July 1953, he made a renewed push on the plebiscite option in discussions with Pakistan.
Starting preparations for a nuclear test in 1972, India finally exploded its first nuclear bomb at the Pokhran test range, codenamed Smiling Buddha, in 1974.
State Force records reveal that Muslim officers sent with reinforcements sided with the rebels and murdered the fellow state troops.
State television refused to air archival cricket footage and banned fundraising ads for Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital during Ramadan.
States were thereafter left to choose whether to join India or Pakistan or to remain independent.
Steadily, hundreds of thousands of Hindus returned to East Pakistan, but the thaw in relations did not last long, primarily owing to the Kashmir conflict.
Stemming from the JIT investigation, and based on NAB's investigations, the court sentenced Nawaz Sharif to 10 years of imprisonment in relation to the Avenfield Apartments case.
Stepping down from the military, he was sworn in for a second presidential term on 28 November 2007.
Still others use schools, but only a small minority live in approximately 30 official camps, mainly in the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.
Still, it allowed India to leave only the minimum number of troops needed to keep civil order so that a referendum could be held under UN observation.
Stipulations set by the constitution provide a delicate check and balance of sharing powers between executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the government.
Strategic miscalculations by both India and Pakistan ensured that the war ended in a stalemate.
Strong US criticism was made against Pakistan for allegedly supporting bin Laden while Gillani called on his government to review its foreign policy.
Strong emphasis on capitalism and foreign direct investment (FDI) in the industry is often regarded as the "Great Decade" in the history of the country (both economical and political history).
Studying engineering before becoming a cricketer by profession.
Subjects of the princely states were previously considered British protected persons but lost that status when the Indian Independence Act 1947 released those states from British vassalage.
Submitted its considerations on 6 May 1961, Ayub Khan altered the entire version of the constitution which was entirely different from the one recommended by Chief Justice Muhammad Shahabuddin.
Subordinate judges are also promoted from senior civil judges on a seniority basis.
Subsequent Soviet arms sales to India, amounting to billions of dollars on concessional terms, reinforced this argument.
Subsequently, Ali Amin Gandapur was elected as Chief Minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa on PTI's behalf.
Subsequently, Bilawal Bhutto Zardari became foreign minister after the political crisis-a position previously held by his grandfather, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, and Hina Rabbani Khar.
Subsequently, Fazlur Rahman became the Leader of the Opposition in 2004 and retained the post till 2007.
Subsequently, India would partition Pakistan into smaller states based on ethnic divisions, marking the resolution of the "Pakistan problem" once and for all.
Subsequently, much of the NAP top leadership was arrested, following the killing of Bhutto's confidant Hayat Khan Sherpao in a Peshawar bomb blast.
Subsequently, on appeal, the finding of the trial court was reversed and the conviction was set aside.
Subsequently, the nonconfidence movement was launched in the Provincial Assembly of Punjab on 16 April 2022, and Hamza Shahbaz became Chief Minister of Punjab.
Succumbing to domestic pressure to restore the Constitution, President Zia-ul-Haq held a referendum (1984) and called for general elections in 1985.
Succumbing to internal and international pressure, however, Khan held the 1965 Pakistani presidential election.
Such Islamization includes blasphemy laws, which make it dangerous for religious minorities to express themselves freely and engage freely in religious and cultural activities.
Such an announcement led the PPP to demand the removal of the National Assembly session, or the opening session to be postponed.
Such circumstances, they say, call for extraordinary measures.
Such training usually lasts for two years until the cadets are able to meet their graduation requirements from the academy.
Sudan maintains a positive relationship with Pakistan on the basis of religion, as they are both Muslim-majority states.
Suhrawardy also verbally authorised the leasing the Inter-Services Intelligence's (ISI) secret installation at Peshawar Air Station to the CIA to conduct operations in the Soviet Union.
Suhrawardy and Feroz began campaigning to become prime minister and president in the upcoming general elections.
Suhrawardy and maintained closer relations with Iskander Mirza, who had now become the first President of the country after the successful promulgation of the Constitution in 1956.
Suhrawardy's efforts led to an American training program for the country's armed forces which met with great opposition in East Pakistan.
Suicide bombings and abductions make working as a journalist an increasingly dangerous occupation in this area of South Asia.
Summers are cool with frigid nights, while winters are long and chilly with temperatures often dropping to −48 °C (−54 °F).
Sunni militant groups operate with impunity across Pakistan, as law enforcement officials either turn a blind eye or appear helpless to prevent widespread attacks against religious minorities.
Support also came from powerful drug barons such as Haji Ayub Afridi, Haji Mirza Iqbal Beg, and Sharif's own brother-in-law, Sohail Zia Butt.
Support for progressive and socialist groups was rising, and calls for a change of regime were gaining momentum.
Support given by Indonesia to Pakistan was seen as a major Indian diplomatic failure, as Indonesia had been among the founding members of the Non-Aligned Movement along with India.
Supporters claim that the judiciary's previous involvement in political matters had, at times, led to decisions undermining elected governments and democracy itself.
Surinder Singh but Brig Singh was dismissed of his position when the infiltrations were discovered.
Survivors of rape shall be provided legal aid (if needed) by the Provincial Bar Council.
Suspects are frequently detained without charge and or convicted without a fair trial.
Suspending the Constitution in 1977, General Zia-ul-Haq took over the presidency in 1978.
Suvorova similarly observed that Bhutto presented herself differently when in the West compared to when she was in Pakistan.
Swain said he became the military's strongest critic, with potential to reform its historically unchecked power.
Swara, Pait likkhi and Addo Baddo are similar tribal and rural customs that often promote marriage of girls in their early teenage years.
Syed Musharraf graduated from Aligarh Muslim University and entered the civil service, which was an extremely prestigious career under British rule.
Syed Salahuddin, led to the events that created armed struggle in the valley.
Syed Yousaf Raza Gilani was elected the Prime Minister of Pakistan by the house on 24 March 2008 and unanimously obtained the Vote of Confidence from the house on 29 March 2008.
Syed Yousaf Raza Gillani took oath of the office of the Speaker National Assembly on 17 October 1993.
Syed Zafar Ali Shah, MNA and Illahi Bukhsh Soomro, Speaker National Assembly, challenged the suspension orders in the Supreme Court.
Syeda Tahira Safdar, is the first woman chief justice of any high court in Pakistan.
TIME magazine described the incident as such: "In retaliation for the killing of one soldier, paramilitary forces rampaged through Sopore's market, setting buildings ablaze and shooting bystanders.
TLP again held its protests in October 2021, following which the Government of Pakistan agreed to lift the ban on the party on 7 November and released Saad Rizvi on 18 November.
TLP also became the 3rd largest party in the province of Punjab, Pakistan after receiving nearly 2.5 million votes in the 2024 Punjab provincial election.
TLP became the 4th largest party in Pakistan following the 2024 Pakistani general election, securing nearly 2.9 million votes.
TLP criticised the attack and called for a judicial inquiry, insisting that its methods were peaceful and democratic.
TLP currently holds one seat (PP-55 Narowal-II) in the Provincial Assembly of the Punjab.
TLP filed a review petition on 29 April addressed to the Interior Secretary, for the removal of the ban imposed on the party.
TLP has notably held protests against actions by the government deemed unjust and against the teachings of Islam.
TLP is also present on Facebook and YouTube.
TLP is currently led by Saad Hussain Rizvi.
TLP is known for its protests against any changes to the blasphemy law in Pakistan.
TLP) is a banned far-right Islamist populist political party in Pakistan.
TV broadcasting and FM radio licenses were issued to private media outlets.
TV stations and news papers are routinely shut down for publishing any reports critical of the government or the military.
Tahir, the district commander of a separatist Islamic group in Kashmir, stated: "We want the Kashmiri Pandits to come back.
Tahira Abdullah, prominent human rights activist, associated with Women's Action Forum (WAF) and the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan (HRCP) and was a prominent member of the Lawyers Movement.
Taking her exams in December 1968, Bhutto passed her O-levels with high grades.
Taking personal responsibility for the political isolation and devastation of Pakistan after the fall of East Pakistan, President Yahya Khan stepped down and ceded power to Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
Taking place on 5 July 1977, it was carried out by Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, the chief of army staff, overthrowing the government of Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
Talbot said that his actions, "if not sinister, were reckless", threatening hopes of rebalancing civil–military relations in Pakistan.
Talbot stated that he "denied that he was a military cat's paw", which he said conflicted with former PTI president Javed Hashmi's claim that the protests were inspired by Pasha.
Tales of corruption in public-sector industries began to surface, which undermined the credibility of Bhutto.
Tales of corruption in the civil bureaucracy and public administration had maligned the democratic process in the country and the public were supportive of the actions taken by General Khan.
Tales of high-scale corruption cases also maligned her image in the country and was dismissed from her post by her own hand-picked president in 1996.
Taliban Interior Minister warned against aggression toward Afghanistan and accused Pakistan of spreading "propaganda" while insisting that TTP issue was Pakistan’s internal matter.
Taliban retaliated on 11 October and the hostilities culminated into the 2025 Afghanistan-Pakistan conflict.
Taliban spokesman Shahidullah Shahid claimed responsibility for the bombing.
Talks between Bhutto and Rehman collapsed and President Khan ordered armed action against the Awami League.
Tariq Mir and Brig Jahanzeb Abab advanced towards the Rajasthan town of Longewala.
Tax exceptions were introduced for small landowners to promote agricultural growth.
Technically there are 26 amendments but 23 amendments were made in constitution and three were not passed by the parliament as the three amendments collapsed.
Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (Urdu: تحریکِ لبیک پاکستان, lit.
Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan's Khadim Hussain Rizvi promoted protests on the release of this film.
Tehreek-e-Labbaik was banned by the Government of Pakistan on April 15, 2021.
Tehreek-e-Labbaik was founded on 1 August 2015 by Khadim Hussain Rizvi, at the Nishtar Park in Karachi.
Tehsils may contain town or municipalities.
Television is the main source of news and information for people in Pakistan's towns, cities and large areas of the countryside.
Ten Pakistani journalists will travel to the United States and ten U.S. journalists will travel to Pakistan.
Ten lashkars were expected to attack the Kashmir Valley through Muzaffarabad and another ten lashkars were expected to join the rebels in Poonch, Bhimber and Rawalakot with a view to advance to Jammu.
Ten seats were exclusively reserved for minorities to be filled through separate electorate system.
Ten women were elected on reserved seats, while Begum Naseem Abdul Wali Khan and Begum Naseem Wali Khan were elected on general seats as a result of the 1977 Pakistani general election.
Tension reached a melting point when after he was brazenly arrested from the high court by the paramilitary forces, Pakistan Rangers, which later was termed as illegal by the Supreme court.
Tensions between India and Pakistan resulted in the Kargil War of 1999; the conflict humiliated Pakistan both militarily and politically and left the country with a very poor international standing.
Tensions between Iran and Pakistan intensified in 1998, when Iran accused Pakistan of war crimes as Pakistani warplanes bombarded Afghanistan's last Shia stronghold in support of the Taliban.
Tensions between the Sharif administration and joint chiefs chairman General Musharraf reached a breaking point.
Tensions de-escalated following international diplomatic mediation which resulted in the October 2002 withdrawal of Indian and Pakistani troops from the international border.
Tensions erupted and an armed resistance began to take place.
Tensions further escalated with reports suggesting moblisation of military equipment by both sides.
Tensions in East Pakistan reached a climax in 1952, when the East Pakistani police opened fire on students protesting for the Bengali language to receive equal status with Urdu.
Tensions reached a boiling point when militants attacked an army base in the Indian-controlled side of Kashmir and killed 18 soldiers.
Territorial changes were carried out in four of the country's provinces, allowing them to retain their geographical structures as they were in 1947.
Territorial disputes along the widely known "Durand Line" and conflicting claims prevented the normalization of bilateral ties between the countries throughout the mid-20th century.
Territorial problems arose with neighbouring Afghanistan over the Pakistan–Afghanistan border in 1949, and with India over the Line of Control in Kashmir.
Terrorism due to war on terror damaged the country's economy and infrastructure to a great extent from 2001 to 2009 but Pakistan is once again developing.
Terrorism in Pakistan originated after Pakistan supported the Afghan mujahideen during the Soviet–Afghan War, and the subsequent civil war that erupted in Afghanistan.
Terrorism in Pakistan, according to the Ministry of Interior, poses a significant threat to the people of Pakistan.
Tests confirmed tuberculosis, and also showed evidence of advanced lung cancer.
Thapa held the Skardu with hardly 250 men for whole six long months without any reinforcement and replenishment.
That Constitution provided for a Presidential form of Government with a unicameral legislature.
That Constitution was promulgated on 23 March 1956, which provided for a parliamentary form of Government with a unicameral legislature.
That denial and rejection were not prudent for any Government that claimed the commitment to the promotion and protection of human rights.
That is to say, it is not immune to pressures and influences from the Executive.
That is where his talents lay ... he was a very clear thinker ...
That is why Jinnah is considered the "great Muslim ruler" in the Indian subcontinent after Emperor Aurangzeb by Pakistanis.
That meeting had been followed by a rare press conference, at which he had warned that Sharif should not violate the terms of King Abdullah's agreement of staying out of politics for 10 years.
That said, they enjoy a certain level of acceptance due to their position in precolonial society.
That same year, the two sides agreed to a ceasefire along the Line of Control.
That was far superior to the Pakistani army of three divisions.
That year, Bhutto became Pakistan's youngest cabinet minister, taking up the reins of the Ministry of Commerce by President Iskander Mirza, pre-coup d'état government.
That year, Gracey approached Akbar Khan to succeed him.
That year, she also declared herself chair of the PPP for life.
That's based pretty much on Pakistan's operations in North Waziristan this entire summer-fall," he said, acknowledging the effectiveness of Pakistan's military offensive in North Waziristan.
The "Armed Forces Special Powers Act" grants the military, wide powers of arrest, the right to shoot to kill, and to occupy or destroy property in counterinsurgency operations.
The "Jinnah Tower" in Guntur, Andhra Pradesh, India, was built to commemorate Jinnah.
The "Official War History – 1965", drafted by the Ministry of Defence of India in 1992, was a long-suppressed document that revealed other miscalculations.
The "Pakistan Government" or "Government of Pakistan" are often used in official documents representing the federal government collectively.
The $1.5 billion in assets were acquired through corrupt practices, the NAB said, and noting that the 1997 Swiss charges of criminal money-laundering were still in litigation.
The '1952 Delhi Agreement' was formulated to settle the extent of applicability of the Indian Constitution to the Jammu and Kashmir and the relation between the State and Centre.
The 'MQM' contested the 1988 elections under the name Muhajir Qaumi Mahaz, it boycotted the 1993 National elections.
The 10th Sector was placed under Osmani's command and included the Naval Commandos and C-in-C's special force.
The 13 JnK Rifles was assigned to 79 Mountain brigade of Brig.
The 13th Amendment in 1997 restored the prime minister’s authority over appointments, but the 17th Amendment in 2003, under General Pervez Musharraf, gave the president more control.
The 14-member Supreme Court bench did not, however, apply the sanction to judges who took oath under the 1999 PCO.
The 15 Punjab could not hold the village and had to retreat on 4 December towards the fortress called Kaiser-i-Hind outside Hussainiwala.
The 18th Amendment in 2010 once again made military appointments subject to the prime minister’s advice.
The 18th Amendment in 2010 restored Parliamentary Democracy in the country, and reduced presidency to a ceremonial position.
The 18th Amendment in 2010 restored Parliamentary Democracy in the country, and reduced the presidency to a ceremonial position.
The 18th Amendment passed in Parliament on 8 April 2010, removing the bar which allowed prime ministers to serve a maximum of two terms in office.
The 1946 election in British India was essentially a plebiscite among Indian Muslims over the creation of Pakistan.
The 1950s reforms in the government administration, the constitutional law and jurisprudence in Pakistan have been greatly influenced by the United States Of America ' legal system.
The 1956 constitution provided for Parliamentary form of government with all the executive powers in the hands of Prime Minister.
The 1958 Pakistani military coup was the first military coup in Pakistan that took place on 27 October 1958.
The 1961 Muslim Family Law Ordinance, which regulated marriage, divorce, and polygamy continues to have a significant legal impact on the women of Pakistan.
The 1962 Constitution was abrogated on 25 March 1969.
The 1962 constitution was abrogated, the parliament was dissolved, and Ayub's civilian officials were dismissed.
The 1962 constitution was suspended in 1969 and abrogated in 1972.
The 1965 Indo-Pak war lasted barely a month.
The 1965 War had proved that Pakistan Army's tank-infantry ratio was lopsided and more infantry was required.
The 1965 presidential election, where Ayub Khan was opposed by Fatima Jinnah, was allegedly rigged.
The 1965 war with India proved that Pakistan could neither break the formidable Indian defenses in an intense violent military campaign fashion nor could she sustain an all-out conflict for long.
The 1965 war witnessed some of the largest tank battles since World War II.
The 1970 Assembly framed the 1973 Constitution, which was unanimously passed on 12 April and promulgated on 14 August 1973.
The 1970 Bhola cyclone made landfall on the East Pakistan coastline during the evening of 12 November, around the same time as a local high tide, killing an estimated 300,000 people.
The 1970 Pakistani general election, was the first direct general election after independence of Pakistan from British India.
The 1971 war and the separation of East Pakistan demoralised the nation.
The 1971 war led to increased tensions between Pakistan and India, although Pakistan recognised the independence of Bangladesh following severe pressure from the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation.
The 1973 Constitution also created certain institutions such as the Shariat Court and the Council of Islamic Ideology to channel the interpretation and application of Islam.
The 1973 Constitution also created institutions such as the Shariat Court and the Council of Islamic Ideology to channel and interpret the application of Islam to the law.
The 1973 Constitution provides for a parliamentary form of Government with a bicameral legislature, comprising the National Assembly and the Senate.
The 1973 Constitution provides for a parliamentary form of government where the executive authority of the state vests with the Prime Minister.
The 1973 constitution abolished all classes in the civil service as the concept of occupational groups was introduced.
The 1973 constitution was the first in Pakistan to be framed by elected representatives.
The 1977 Assembly election is regarded as the first "free and fair" election in the Jammu and Kashmir state.
The 1977 Pakistani military coup (codenamed Operation Fair Play) was the second military coup in the history of Pakistan.
The 1977 elections are widely regarded as rigged.
The 1985 elections, initially slated for 1977, were postponed following Zia-ul-Haq's coup, pledging elections within 90 days.
The 1990–1991 Pakistan Integrated Household Survey indicated that the female labor force participation rate was 45% in rural areas and 17% the urban areas.
The 1991–92 Labour Force Survey revealed that only about 16% of women aged 10 years and over were in the labor force.
The 1997 Anti-Terrorism Act, which established Anti Terrorism Court, and subsequent anti-terrorist legislation, has arisen concerns about the protection of fundamental rights.
The 1997 general elections saw the centre-right, Pakistan Muslim League (N), or PML (N), ging the exclusive mandate in the country and supermajority in the parliament.
The 1999 PCO and decisions made under it were given constitutional protection by Seventeenth amendment.
The 2005 Kashmir earthquake, which killed over 80,000 people, led to India and Pakistan finalising negotiations for the opening of a road for disaster relief through Kashmir.
The 2007 Samjhauta Express bombings was a terrorist attack targeted on the Samjhauta Express train on 18 February.
The 2008 Mumbai attacks by ten Pakistani terrorists killed over 173 and wounded 308.
The 2008 general elections marked the return of the leftists.
The 2008 report by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees determined that Pakistani-administered Kashmir was 'not free'.
The 2008–2013 PPP-led coalition government was criticised as being the most corrupt in the country's history.
The 2010 Chatham House opinion poll of Azad Kashmir's people found that overall concerns about human rights abuses in 'Azad Kashmir' was 19%.
The 2010 Chatham House opinion poll of the people of Indian administered Jammu and Kashmir found that overall concern, in the entire state, over human rights abuses was 43%.
The 2013 Pakistani general election was held on 11 May.
The 2013 Pakistani general election was the first election in the country after which there was a constitutional transfer of power from one civilian government to another.
The 2013 Pakistani general election were the first elections in the country where there was a constitutional transfer of power from one civilian government to another.
The 2014 Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Assembly election was held from 25 November – 20 December.
The 2014 Wagah border suicide attack has been the deadliest retaliation against the operation so far.
The 2016 Nine Zero raid was referred to as "the end of the story for the party founder, Altaf Hussain".
The 2017 Ease of doing business index recognised Pakistan as one of the ten countries making the biggest improvements to business regulations.
The 2018 Pakistani general election was majorly contested between PML-N and PTI.
The 2022 Azadi March (Urdu: آزادی مارچ, romanized: Āzādī Mārch, lit.
The 2022–2025 Pakistan political unrest is a series of political crises after the ousting of former prime minister Imran Khan through a no-confidence motion at 12 p.m., 10 April 2022.
The 2024 elections happened amidst allegations of pre-poll rigging by the military establishment in favour of the coalition led by Nawaz Sharif's PML-N.
The 27th Constitutional Amendment Bill, introduced in Pakistan’s Senate in November 2025, proposed major changes to the military leadership structure by amending Article 243.
The 3 Gurkha Rifles and 9 Para SF carried the operation out and forced the Pakistani forces to retreat by 25 July.
The 56 Mountain Brigade under the command of Brig A. N. Aul of the 8 Mountain Division was also inducted into the area.
The 7th Infantry Division under the command of Maj Gen Har Kishan Sibal attempted an offensive on the canal on 6 September.
The 8 Mountain Division under the command of Maj Gen Mohinder Puri was mobilised to be ready for engagement.
The 8th Amendment turned Pakistan into a semi-presidential republic and in the period between 1985 and 2010, the executive power was shared by president and prime minister.
The 8th Amendment turned Pakistan into a semi-presidential republic and in the period between 1985 and 2010, the executive power was shared by the president and prime minister.
The A300 aircraft was ordered to land at Nawabshah Airport (now Shaheed Benazirabad Airport).
The ANP has also won provincial seats in Balochistan and in Sindh for the first time in 15 years.
The APTTA agreement has taken effect after several Afghan trucks delivered fruits from Afghanistan to the Wagah border with India in June 2011.
The APTTA allows Afghan trucks to drive inside Pakistan to the Wagah border with India, and also to the port cities of Karachi and Gwadar.
The APTTA is intended to improve trade between the two countries but Pakistan often delays Afghan-bound containers, especially after the 2011 NATO attack in Pakistan.
The ARD movement and the political parties further tapped into the public anger and mass demonstrations against Musharraf.
The ARU supports law enforcement agencies and does not recover assets directly.
The Act abandoned the common nationality used across the Empire and redefined British subject to mean any citizen of a Commonwealth country.
The Act made the existing Constituent Assemblies, the dominion legislatures.
The Afghan Durrani Empire ruled Kashmir from 1752 until its 1819 conquest by the Sikh Empire under Ranjit Singh.
The Aga Khan later wrote that it was "freakishly ironic" that Jinnah, who would lead the League to independence, "came out in bitter hostility toward all that I and my friends had done ...
The Air Force brutally failed to protect the naval and army assets during the conflict (See Operation Python and Operation Trident).
The Air Headquarters began fighting the president over the contingency plans, and this inter-services rivalry ended with Asghar Khan's resignation.
The Ali brothers had sought to project Pakistan as the natural leader of the Islamic world, in large part due to its large manpower and military strength.
The Ali brothers had sought to project Pakistan as the natural leader of the Islamic world, in large part due to its large population and military strength.
The All India Azad Muslim Conference represented nationalist Muslims who, in April 1940, gathered in Delhi to voice their support for a united India.
The Allama Iqbal Stamps Society was established for the promotion of Iqbal in philately and in other hobbies.
The American government decided to rely on drone attacks, which began to negatively affect the US-Pakistan relations.
The Amnesty International Pakistan and the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan stated that the voting irregularities "exceeded its worst fears".
The Armed Forces has historically played an influential role in the country's politics, although it has declined in recent years.
The Army basketball program regularly provides the Pakistan national basketball team with players.
The Army has neither handed over to the government any document or map as reported, nor is it in possession of any evidence concerning the so-called Jinnahpur plan.
The Army recruits from all religions in Pakistan including Hindus, Sikhs, Zoroastrians, Christians who have held command-level positions.
The Army runs the Fauji Foundation which sold Khoski Sugar Mill in 2004 for PKR 300 million despite receiving the highest bid of PKR 387 million.
The Army was officially established in August 1947 after the Partition of India.
The Army's corps are divided into three regional-level commands which are assigned for defending the territories of Pakistan.
The Article 58(2)(b) was later on omitted from the Constitution vide 13th Amendment in the Constitution in April 1997.
The Assembly also formed a Constitution Committee on 17 April 1972 to prepare the first draft for framing a Constitution.
The Assembly was again dissolved by the then President Ghulam Ishaq Khan, under Article 58(2)(b) on 18 April 1993.
The Assembly was dissolved by President Farooq Ahmad Khan Laghari on 5 November 1996.
The Assembly was later dissolved by President Ghulam Ishaq Khan under Article 58(2)(b) of the Constitution of Pakistan, on 6 August 1990.
The Assembly was later dissolved on the advice of the Prime Minister on 18 July 1993.
The Associated Press reported that "the president said Mullen's statement 'expressed frustration' over the insurgent safe havens in Pakistan.
The Attlee ministry desired a rapid British departure from the subcontinent, but had little confidence in Wavell to achieve that end.
The Avenfield case pertains to the ownership of four luxury apartments in London.
The Awami League began propagating its secular message through its newspaper to the Bengali readership.
The Awami League called for general strikes throughout the country.
The Awami League had 160 seats in the National Assembly, all won from East Pakistan; the socialist PPP had 81, and the conservative PML had 10.
The Awami League launched a non-cooperation movement as they virtually controlled the entire province.
The Awami League was banned by General Yahya Khan.
The Awami League's emphasis on secularism differentiated it from the Muslim League.
The Awami National Party (ANP)[a] is a Pakistani political party, primarily based in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
The Awami National Party is one of the few parties in Pakistan to hold a system of regular internal general elections every four-year period.
The Awami National Party later formed an alliance with the Pakistan Muslim League (PML) in early June 1989 which led to a formal split in the party with many activists allying with the PPP.
The Ayub Khan regime was also supported by foreign governments such as the United States.
The Ayub administration "guided" the print newspapers through his takeover of key opposition papers and, while Ayub Khan permitted a National Assembly, it had only limited powers.
The BBC wrote: "There is little doubt that Mascarenhas' reportage played its part in ending the war.
The BCCI also did not allow Pakistani players to play in the Indian Premier League in the aftermath of the 2008 terror attack, although they were part of the inaugural season.
The Baldia Town factory inferno case took a dramatic turn on Friday 7 February 2015 when a report showed that the MQM was behind the deadly fire that claimed the lives of at least 258 factory workers.
The Baloch rebellion of the 1970s was the most threatening civil disorder to a United Pakistan since Bangladesh's secession.
The Balochistan Bar Association stated, amidst widespread multiparty protests in the province, that the 2024 elections were "a deep conspiracy against the supremacy of constitution and law".
The Balochistan Insurgency, ongoing since the early 2000s, involves separatist groups in Pakistan's Balochistan province seeking autonomy.
The Bangladesh Force, namely the Mukti Bahini, consisting of a conventional force and a guerilla force, was formed under the retired colonel Mohammad Ataul Gani Osmani.
The Bangladeshi independence fighters even managed to temporarily capture airstrips at Lalmonirhat and Shalutikar.
The Bar is governed by an executive council consisting of 22 elected members with an elected president and a secretary.
The Battle of Basantar was deemed an Indian victory.
The Battle of Tiger Hill began on 3 July.
The Battle of Tololing, amongst other assaults, slowly tilted the combat in India's favour.
The Benazir Bhutto of 1988 was a uniting figure for her country; that of twenty years later, a divisive one.
The Bengali-speaking people of East Pakistan strongly opposed this policy, and in 1971, the official language issue was one of several factors in the secession of the region to form Bangladesh.
The Bengalis are fighting the enemy with great courage for an independent Bangladesh.
The Bhutto family had seven days to appeal, and the court granted a stay of execution while studying the petition.
The Bhutto government implemented a series of reforms in the industrial sector, focusing on nationalisation and improving workers' rights.
The Bhutto government increased the level of investment, both private and public, in the economy from less than Rs.
The Bhuttos were aristocratic, wealthy landlords from Sindh, part of the waderos or landed gentry.
The Bhuttos' three younger children were Murtaza (born 1954), Sanam (1957), and Shahnawaz (1958).
The Blasphemy law can bring fines and prison sentences of up to three years, while defiling the Quran requires imprisonment for life, and defaming Muhammad requires a death sentence.
The Blasphemy law, for example, allows life imprisonment or the death penalty for contravening Islamic principles, but legislation was passed in October 2004 to attempt to counter misuse of the law.
The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) also opposed any further series without the permission of the Indian government.
The Bofors FH-77B field howitzer played a vital role, with Indian gunners making maximum use of the terrain.
The British Empire divided the Raj into two parts, India and Pakistan.
The British MEP Sajjad Karim is of Pakistani origin.
The British Paramountcy over the 562 Indian princely states ended.
The British Raj managed the defence, external affairs, and communications for the princely state and stationed a British Resident in Srinagar to oversee the internal administration.
The British commander of the Pakistan Army General Sir Frank Walter Messervy refused to attack the Indian army units.
The British in May released a plan for a united Indian state comprising substantially autonomous provinces, and called for "groups" of provinces formed on the basis of religion.
The British indicated that formation of a constitution-making body would follow the votes.
The British officers in the Pakistan Army had to established the wide range of schools to provide education and to train the army personnel in order to raise the dedicated and professional army.
The British promptly arrested most major leaders of the Congress and imprisoned them for the remainder of the war.
The British rulers realized that the Hindus and Muslims of India remained two separate and distinct nations and socio-cultural entities.
The British rulers were left with no option but to eventually accept the demand of the Muslims of India.
The British used to rule the native population through Indian Civil Service (ICS) and most of the officers in ICS were British themselves.
The British, while not approving of a separate Muslim homeland, appreciated the simplicity of a single voice to speak on behalf of India's Muslims.
The CDA Engineering and the Environmental Protection Agency supervised the engineering the Supreme Court's monument and civil works infrastructure throughout its lengthy construction since the 1960s.
The CEC is currently chaired by Asif Ali Zardari, assisted by additional vice-chairmen, including all the major office bearers of the party.
The CEC is the supreme parliamentary body in charge of setting out strategies and positions during and after elections.
The CEJ serves as a hub for the professional development, training and networking of Pakistani journalists and media professionals from all parts of the country.
The CIA had long suspected Osama bin Laden of hiding in Pakistan.
The CIA has reported that at least 506,000 people from Indian Administered Kashmir are internally displaced, about half of who are Hindu Pandits.
The CIA notified Ayub Khan of the incident while he was in London for a state visit: he reportedly shrugged his shoulders and stated that he had expected such an incident would eventually happen.
The CJF said 15 of the accused are facing mandatory death sentences if convicted.
The CPEC will connect Pakistan with China and the Central Asian countries with highway connecting Kashgar to Khunjerab and Gwadar.
The CSS Aspirants collected funds from their pocket money.
The CSS Exam has two major parts: a written test, which takes place in February or March, and a panel interview, which takes place in November.
The CSS Examinations are held at the start of every year.
The Cabinet Ministers chair the Cabinet and are further assisted by the Cabinet Secretary of Pakistan, whose appointment comes from the Civil Services of Pakistan.
The Cabinet approved reservation of 10% quota for women in Central Superior Services in its meeting held on 12 July 2006.
The Cabinet can have a maximum of 11 percent (50 members including the Prime Minister) of the total strength of the Parliament.
The Central Intelligence Agency leased Peshawar Air Station in the 1950s, and spying into the Soviet Union from the air station grew immensely, with Ayub's full knowledge, during his presidency.
The Central Secretariat and the Parliament Lodges of the Pakistan Parliament play important roles in recruiting strong state candidates.
The Central Superior Services (CSS) is the civil service authority of Pakistan under the jurisdiction of the Pakistani federal government.
The Centurion battle tank, with its 20pdr gun and heavy armour, performed better than the overly complex[need quotation to verify] Patton.
The Chief Election Commissioner is appointed by the president, in his/her discretion, for a term of 3 years.
The Chief Minister heads the provincial government.
The Chief of Army Staff controls and commands the army at all levels of operational command, and is assisted the number of Principal Staff Officers (PSOs) who are three-star rank generals.
The Chinese Muslims in the Second Sino-Japanese War received a pledge of support from Jinnah.
The Chinese communists defeated the Nationalists in the Chinese Civil War.
The Chinese cooperation and further assistance with the Pakistan Army is vital in designing, vehicular construction, and material manufacturing of the main battle tanks.
The Chinese government advised Pakistan against any commitments that could jeopardize China's relationships with US and India.
The Chinese has designed tailor-made advanced weapons for Pakistan, making it a strong military power in the South Asian region.
The Chinese leader compared visiting Pakistan with visiting his brother's home.
The Chinese leadership has acknowledged Pakistan's steadfast support on key issues.
The Citibank executive, Shaukat Aziz, returned to the country to take control of the economy.
The Civil Government, which came to power in December 1971 pursuant to 1970 elections, gave the nation an interim Constitution in the year 1972.
The Civil Service of Pakistan selects only 7.5% of the applicants by merit, education, qualification and experience.
The Coalition For Women In Journalism founding director Kiran Nazish said: “This case crystalizes the multi-layered dangers women journalists face in many countries, Pakistan being one of them.
The Commission retains full financial autonomy and independence from all government control.
The Commission submitted its report to the government on 29 April 1961.
The Commission transacts its business by holding meetings.
The Commonwealth had taken up the Kashmir issue in January 1951.
The Congress also rejected the Cripps plan, demanding immediate concessions which Cripps was not prepared to give.
The Congress and its allies formed the government even in the North-West Frontier Province (N.W.F.P.
The Congress dominated the central assembly nevertheless, though it lost four seats from its previous strength.
The Congress endorsed the joint statement from the London conference over the angry dissent from some elements.
The Congress followed the failed Cripps mission by demanding, in August 1942, that the British immediately "Quit India", proclaiming a mass campaign of satyagraha until they did.
The Congress leadership approached Khan to become a part of the party, but after attending the meeting with Jawaharlal Nehru, Khan's political views and ambitions gradually changed.
The Congress soon joined the new Indian ministry.
The Conservatives attracted voters from religious society (MMA) whose support had collapsed.
The Constitution allows the judges to be appointed at the Supreme Court regardless of colour, race, and religious sect.
The Constitution also encapsulates provisions stipulating the legal system's compliance with Islamic injunctions contained in the Quran and Sunnah.
The Constitution declared Pakistan an Islamic Republic and Islam the state religion.
The Constitution designates the president of Pakistan as a ceremonial Head of State who is to represent the unity of the state.
The Constitution dictates general elections be held every five years, when the National Assembly has completed its term or has been dissolved, and Senatorial elections be held every six years.
The Constitution discusses the possibility of an acting president.
The Constitution does not allow for the dissolution of the Senate.
The Constitution does not empower the President to dissolve the National Assembly.
The Constitution does not fix the number of justices of the Supreme Court, though it can be fixed by Parliament through an act signed by the President.
The Constitution grants both men and women the right to run for presidency.
The Constitution grants powers to the Supreme Court to make judicature transfers.
The Constitution grants the commissioner the security of tenure and financial autonomy.
The Constitution of 1962 envisaged a Federal State with Presidential form of government, with the National Assembly at the centre and the Provincial Assemblies in the Provinces.
The Constitution of Pakistan (Urdu: آئینِ پاکستان, romanised: Ā'īn-e-Pākistān; also known as the 1973 Constitution) is the supreme law of Pakistan.
The Constitution of Pakistan does not set the legal name for the civil service, and there is no service named "Central Superior Services of Pakistan" (or CSS).
The Constitution of Pakistan entrusts the superior judiciary with the obligation to preserve, protect and defend the constitution.
The Constitution of Pakistan established and constituted the federal government of four provinces of federation of nation-state, known as State of Pakistan.
The Constitution of Pakistan lays down separate services for the central government and the provincial governments.
The Constitution of Pakistan lays down the fundamentals and working of the Pakistani judiciary.
The Constitution of Pakistan lists several requirements for members of the National Assembly in Article 62.
The Constitution of Pakistan of 1956 reserved 10 seats for women in the unicameral Parliament with five seats each from East and West Pakistan.
The Constitution of Pakistan of 1962 introduced by President Ayub Khan, turned the country into a presidential republic without direct elections.
The Constitution of Pakistan of 1962 reserved six seats for women in the National Assembly with three seats each from East and West Pakistan.
The Constitution of Pakistan provides for fundamental rights.
The Constitution of Pakistan recognizes equality between men and women (Art.
The Constitution of Pakistan requires that the prime minister be a member of the National Assembly.
The Constitution of Pakistan sets the principle qualifications that the candidate must meet to be eligible to the office of the president.
The Constitution provides that there shall be a Cabinet headed by the Prime Minister, which is collectively responsible to the National Assembly.
The Constitution requires the president to be a "Muslim of not less than forty five (45) years of age".
The Constitution states that all laws are to conform with the injunctions of Islam as laid down in the Quran and Sunnah.
The Constitution truly maintained a delicate balance between traditionalists and modernists and reflected heavy compromises on fundamental religious rights in the country.
The Constitution ultimately established a bicameral Parliament, with the National Assembly as the lower house and the Senate as the upper house.
The Constitution was promulgated in 1973 that reflected this equal balance and a compromise between Islamism and Humanism, and provided guaranteed equal human rights to all.
The Constitution was written in the point of representing the conservative Islam as well as reflecting a heavy compromise over the religious rights and humanism ideas, advocated by the PPP.
The Constitutional provision of 20 special seats for women lapsed in 1990, thus decreased the Assembly strength from 237 to 217.
The Council could formulate and regulate the policy in the Part II of the Legislative List.
The Council of Islamic Ideology deemed chemical castration un-Islamic, so the punishment was removed from an anti-rape law that was passed in late 2021.
The Court complex judges' chambers, a separate building consisting of the law library, various meeting spaces, and auxiliary services including a lecture auditorium.
The Court in its judgement asked the government to complete its agenda and then hand over powers to the elected government.
The Court in its judgment on 12 May 2000 validated the military takeover by giving three years time frame to the government, starting from 12 October 1999.
The Court ordered for a Joint Investigation Team to be formed for the inquiry into allegations of money laundering, corruption and contradictory statements made by the Sharif family.
The Court ordered her to be sent to a Women's protection centre.
The Court said "the penalty for contempt of the Holy Prophet ... is death".
The Court underscored that such practices violate the principles of due process under Article 10A and the constitutional right to dignity under Article 14.
The Defence Housing Authority (DHA) and Askari Real Estate are prominent examples of the Pakistan Army's large-scale real estate ventures.
The Delhi Agreement witnessed the largest mass population transfer since the Partition of India in 1947.
The Deputy Commissioner of Dera Ismail Khan noted a scheme to send tribesmen from Malakand to Sialkot, in lorries provided by the Pakistan government.
The Director General of the ISI is among the most powerful posts in Pakistan.
The Director-General reports directly to both the Prime Minister and the Chief of Army Staff.
The District Governor or Zila Nazim used to be the executive head of districts until 2010, when the government shifted power to the District Coordination Officers.
The Dogra Hindus of Jammu were originally organised under the banner of All Jammu and Kashmir Rajya Hindu Sabha, with Prem Nath Dogra as a leading member.
The Dominion of Pakistan comprised two geographically and culturally separate areas to the east and the west, with India in between.
The Dominion of Pakistan was created as a result of the Pakistan Movement in 1947.
The Durand Line witnesses frequent occurrences of suicide bombings, airstrikes, or street battles on an almost daily basis.
The ECP announced on 25 May 2022 that the by-elections would be held on 17 July 2022.
The ECP has a four-member panel from all the four provinces (Punjab, Sindh, Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) and four Provincial Election Commissioners.
The ECP has declared 1304 polling stations sensitive and 690 highly sensitive.
The EU Election Observation Mission to Pakistan maintained, however, that a "level playing field" was not afforded to all parties and that the process was not "as good as that of 2013".
The EU in its message said, "The high voter turnout figure proves that democracy is firmly rooted in India.
The EU would like to congratulate India and its democratic system for conduct of fair elections, unmarred by violence, in the state of Jammu and Kashmir".
The East India Company was founded by royal charter in 1600 and granted a monopoly on all English trade with Asia.
The East Pakistan Renaissance Society advocated the creation of a sovereign state in eastern British India.
The East Pakistan Rifles and Bengali officers in Pakistan's army, navy, and marines defected to the rebellion after taking refuge in different parts of India.
The East Pakistan's Awami League leader Sheikh Mujibur Rahman stressed his political position by presenting his Six Points and endorsing the Bengalis' right to govern themselves.
The East Pakistani Awami League charged the Ayub administration with discriminatory policies towards the East.
The East-Pakistan parliament passed a resolution denouncing the 1954 military pact with the United States.
The Economist Intelligence Unit rated Pakistan an "authoritarian regime" in 2023.
The Election Commission announced that due to the assassination the elections, which had been scheduled for 8 January 2008, would take place on 18 February.
The Election Commission of Pakistan announced that the PML-N had won 124 seats in Parliament.
The Election Commission of Pakistan is a constitutionally-established institution chaired by an appointed and designated Chief Election Commissioner, supervising general elections.
The Election Commission registered 24 political parties, and public meetings attracted many large crowds.
The Election Commission rejected the allegations.
The Election Commission was formed on 23 March 1956.
The Electoral College consisted of only 80,000 Basic Democrats.
The Electoral College for this Assembly was the Provincial Assemblies of respective Provinces.
The Electoral College is composed of elected senators, members of the National Assembly, and provincial assemblies.
The English media is urban and elite-centric, is more liberal and professional compared to the Urdu media.
The European Parliament welcomed the smooth conduct of the State Legislative Elections in the Jammu and Kashmir despite boycott calls.
The European Union Election Observation Mission said that no rigging had been found during the election, and polling was termed to be "transparent".
The European Union also opposed Pakistan's violation of the LOC.
The European Union holds the view that the plebiscite is not in Kashmiris' interest.
The European war of 1914 was an outcome of the mistakes mentioned above made by the European nations in the separation of the Church and the State.
The Executive branch consists of the Cabinet and is led by the Prime Minister.
The Express Tribune said that Russia had raised doubt “over the seriousness of Pakistan to mature the oil deal”.
The F-86 Sabre was vulnerable to the diminutive Folland Gnat, nicknamed "Sabre Slayer".
The FIR was lodged after the son of slain hard line cleric Abdul Rahid Ghazi (who was killed during the operation) asked authorities to bring charges against Musharraf.
The FPSC conducts examinations that test the candidate's knowledge of current affairs, English, and various analytical abilities.
The FSC ruled that, if the President did not take action to amend the law before 30 April 1991, then § 295-C would stand amended by its ruling.
The Federal Bureau of Statistics shows that once the country boasted at least 700 cinemas, this number has dwindled to less than 170 by 2005.
The Federal Cabinet consists of ministers, ministers of state, and advisers.
The Federal Government is Subject to the Constitution.
The Federal Ministers and Ministers of State are appointed from among the members of Parliament.
The Federal Public Service Commission conducts and supervises the exams.
The Federal Public Service Commission holds the combined competitive exam annually under the title advertised as exam for "Central Superior Services"— the term of colonial days which survived reforms.
The Federal Shariat Court (FSC) is a religious body that rules on whether any particular law is repugnant to the injunctions of Islam.
The Federal Shariat Court (FSC) of Pakistan is a court which has the power to examine and determine whether the laws of the country comply with Shari'a law.
The Federal Shariat Court is the only authority which holds the constitutional power to prohibit and prevent the enactment of laws which are deemed to be un-Islamic by the parliament of Pakistan.
The Federal system had been curtailed by allowing the Provincial Governors to be appointed directly by the president.
The Federally Administered Tribal Areas were merged with the neighbouring Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province in 2018.
The Fida Group later took on the mantle of the PML while the Junejo Group became known as the JIP.
The Fifth Amendment, passed on 15 September 1976, focused on curtailing the power and jurisdiction of the Judiciary.
The Finance Minister of Pakistan presents the annual federal budget in the Parliament in the midst of the year, and it has to be passed by both houses of the Parliament.
The First Amendment led to Pakistan's recognition of and diplomatic ties with Bangladesh.
The First Anglo-Sikh war (1845–46) was fought between the Sikh Empire, which asserted sovereignty over Kashmir, and the East India Company.
The First Report is still marked as classified, while the Supplementary Report's excerpts were suppressed by the news correspondents.
The First Women Bank Ltd. (FWBL) was established in 1989 to address women's financial needs.
The Foreign Minister of Pakistan is the official charged with state-to-state diplomacy, although the Prime minister maintains an ultimate authority over foreign policy.
The Freedom House also commented that the military exerts enormous influence over security and policy issues, intimidates the press, and enjoys impunity for indiscriminate or extralegal use of force.
The GCM's meetings are generally held at the Jinnah Convention Centre in Islamabad.
The General Elections 2018 and General Elections 2024 were performed under the Elections Act 2017, which was passed by the National Assembly on 2 October 2017.
The General Headquarters sent the nomination papers to the Prime Minister's Secretariat for the appointment of commander-in-chief.
The General elections for the eighth National Assembly was held on 16 November 1988.
The General elections for the ninth National Assembly was held on 24 October 1990.
The General parliamentary elections were held in 1970, with People's Party winning the majority in West-Pakistan and Awami League [People's League] gaining absolute majority in East-Pakistan.
The General's entourage itself was ambushed, and he was forced to flee his vehicle.
The Geneva City Court subsequently charged Zardari in absentia with laundering money and taking bribes of $15 million from SGS and Cotecna.
The Gilgit Agency in the north was overwhelmingly Muslim and was directly governed by the British under an agreement with the Maharaja.
The Gilgit forces in the High Himalayas, who had previously made good progress, were finally defeated.
The Gilgit scouts made good progress in the High Himalayas sector, infiltrating troops to bring Leh under siege, capturing Kargil and defeating a relief column heading for Skardu.
The Gnat is credited by many independent and Indian sources as having shot down seven Pakistani Canadair Sabres[a] in the 1965 war, while two Gnats were downed by PAF fighters.
The Government in return, went to the Federal Court, where the famous judgment was given by the then Chief Justice Muhammad Munir, according to which Maulvi Tamizuddin lost the case.
The Government of India rejected the protests of Pakistan and accepted the invitation of the Dewan to intervene.
The Government of India responded with Operation Vijay, a mobilisation of 200,000 Indian troops.
The Government of Madhya Pradesh in India awards the Iqbal Samman, named in honour of the poet, every year at the Bharat Bhavan to Indian writers for their contributions to Urdu literature and poetry.
The Government of Pakistan used the "Bihari massacre" to justify its deployment of the military in East Pakistan on 25 March, when it initiated its military crackdown.
The Governor General of India, Lord Mountbatten, required the Maharaja to accede to India before India could send troops.
The Governors appointed by President after consulting the Prime minister, act only as representatives of federal government in the province and do not have any part in running the government.
The Green Party of Pakistan has expressed some support for LGBTQ rights, but most political parties either ignore the issue of LGBTQ rights or oppose LGBTQ rights on religious grounds.
The Hall was renovated on the orders of the Speaker and inaugurated by the Prime Minister of Pakistan on 3 November 1996.
The Hamoodur Rahman Commission and the POW Investigation Commission reports instituted by Pakistan lists the Pakistani POWs as given in the table below.
The Han dynasty's Protectorate of the Western Regions bordered the Kushan Empire.
The Harkat-ul-Mujahideen was founded in the 1980s by the ISI to fight against Indian interests.
The Hazara community is an ethnic community from central Afghanistan of Hazarajat that have a mostly strong Shia religious identity.
The Hindu leaders Tagore and Gandhi and Muslim Jinnah both discussed the war with the Chinese Muslim delegation under Ma Fuliang while in Turkey President İsmet İnönü also met the delegation.
The Hindus of the Jammu province favoured an outright merger with India.
The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan condemned Khan's remarks, saying they "plumbed the depths of misogyny" and demanded an apology to Maryam and all women.
The Human Rights groups have reported that the cases of forced conversion are increasing.
The Hurriyat Conference observed in 2003 that a "plebiscite [is] no longer an option".
The IAF 122 squadron under the command of Wing Cdr D. M. Conquest equipped with Hawker Hunter and HAL HF-24 Marut also bombed the Pakistani units.
The IAF flew 4,000 sorties while the PAF offered little in retaliation, partly because of the paucity of non-Bengali technical personnel.
The IAF was flying large numbers of Hawker Hunters, Indian-manufactured Folland Gnats, de Havilland Vampires, EE Canberra bombers and a squadron of MiG-21s.
The ICIJ said the documents "contain no suggestion that Khan himself owns offshore companies".
The IDA occupied 55 seats, but an influential leader, Nawaz Sharif, chose to serve the Chief Minister of Punjab Province.
The IGLA noted that though the death penalty remains optional, it has no evidence that the death penalty was ever implemented.
The IHC noted that the National Accountability Bureau (NAB) did not specify Sharif's exact income or sources of income in its reference.
The IJI competed against the leftist alliance, known as the People's Democratic Alliance (PDA), which had contained the Pakistan People's Party and the TeI.
The IJI gained a majority in Punjab, and Nawaz was re-elected as the chief minister.
The IJI took only 54 seats, although the party secured control of Punjab, the country's largest and most powerful province.
The IJI, under the leadership of Nawaz Sharif, won a majority in the Parliament, and Sharif became prime minister.
The IRB noted that due to the proof-of-evidence requirements, convictions under Sharia Law are rare, but that the fear remained very high.
The IRW has since been replaced by the Insaf Research Team.
The ISI allegedly have links to the Haqqani network and contributed to their funding.
The ISI also engaged in vote rigging in an attempt to secure an IJI victory.
The ISI also helped with the founding of the group Jaish-e-Mohammed.
The ISI had extensively spied upon Bhutto and her husband throughout her period in office, President Khan privately paid plaintiffs to file corruption suits against Bhutto's husband.
The ISI has been accused of having close ties to Lashkar-e-Taiba, who carried out the attacks in Mumbai in 2008.
The ISI has been accused of supporting Taliban forces and recruiting and training mujahideen to fight in Afghanistan and Kashmir.
The ISI has been accused of using designated terrorist groups and militants to conduct proxy wars against its neighbors.
The ISI has strong links with jihadist groups, particularly in Afghanistan and Kashmir.
The ISI highlighted President Daud's support for anti-Pakistan militants, including backing Baloch separatists in the conflict.
The ISI is also accused of supporting pro independence militias in Jammu and Kashmir while Pakistan denies all such claims, or says it gives them moral support only.
The ISI is headquartered in Pakistan's capital, Islamabad.
The ISI organised Operation Midnight Jackal, through which they used bribery and intimidation to discourage National Assembly members from voting with the PPP.
The ISI reports to its agency executive which is the Director-General of Inter-Services Intelligence.
The ISI supported Al-Qaeda during the war along with the CIA against the Soviet government, through the Taliban, and it is believed by some that there is still contact between Al-Qaeda and the ISI.
The ISI's black ops unit is the Covert Action Division.
The ISPR, the public relations arm of the Pakistan Army stated, "The Army had no evidence concerning the so-called Jinnahpur plan, it is clarified that the newspaper story in question is baseless.
The Imperial Parliament brought regulations for British subject status into codified statute law for the first time with passage of the British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act 1914.
The Indian Air Force carried out several sorties against Pakistan, and within a week, IAF aircraft dominated the skies of East Pakistan.
The Indian Air Force launched Operation Safed Sagar in support of the mobilisation of Indian land forces on 26 May.
The Indian Air Force was tasked to act jointly with ground troops on 25 May.
The Indian Air Force would not face adverse reactions from the world community as long as civilian casualties could be minimised.
The Indian Army failed to recognise the presence of heavy Pakistani artillery and armaments in Chumb and suffered significant losses as a result.
The Indian Army has been carrying out cordon-and-search operations against militants in Indian-administered Kashmir since the violence broke out in 1989.
The Indian Army has decided to try the accused in the General Court Martial.
The Indian Army of the time possessed 15 cavalry regiments, and in the 1950s had begun modernising them by the acquisition of 164 AMX-13 light tanks and 188 Centurions.
The Indian Army was given enough information to understand Operation Gibraltar and that they were battling not insurgents, as they had initially thought, but Pakistani Army regulars.
The Indian Army's first priority was to recapture peaks that were in the immediate vicinity of NH 1.
The Indian Army's improved performance following its defeat in the Sino-Indian War in 1962 boosted its morale and prestige.
The Indian Navy also prepared to blockade the Pakistani ports (primarily the Karachi port) to cut off supply routes under Operation Talwar.
The Indian Navy did, however, lose a single ship, when INS Khukri (F149) was torpedoed by a Pakistani submarine.
The Indian Navy's western and eastern fleets joined in the North Arabian Sea and began aggressive patrols and threatened to cut Pakistan's sea trade.
The Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru demanded that Sheikh Abdullah should be released from prison and involved in the state's government.
The Indian army responded with Operation Vijay, which launched on 26 May 1999.
The Indian army was better equipped than the Pakistanis and enjoyed significant numerical superiority over them.
The Indian artillery stood within the range of Lahore International Airport.
The Indian authorities also attempted to carry on psychological warfare and keep up the morale of comrades in East Pakistan.
The Indian campaign's "blitzkrieg" techniques exploited weaknesses in the Pakistani positions and bypassed opposition; this resulted in a swift victory.
The Indian forces expected the city to have been abandoned by the Pakistani commanders.
The Indian forces launched a counterattack in the south recapturing Jhanger and Rajauri.
The Indian forces suffered heavy losses at the Badamtola ambush.
The Indian forces were able to cross the Meghna river with the help of local fishing boats and 14 Mil Mi-4 helicopters.
The Indian forces were eventually pushed from the fortress a well.
The Indian government cleared limited use of Air Power only on 25 May, for fear of undesirable escalation, with the fiat that IAF fighter jets were not to cross the LOC under any circumstance.
The Indian government considered itself to be under legal possession of Jammu and Kashmir by virtue of the accession of the state.
The Indian government is also trying to reinstate the displaced Pandits in Kashmir.
The Indian government sets conditions for talks with Pakistan.
The Indian offensive was repulsed and stopped successfully.
The Indian prime minister, Lal Bahadur Shastri, was hailed as a national hero in India.
The Indian side had deployed one battalion, 15 Punjab, under the command of Lt Col Shastry comprising 900 soldiers with support from the IAF.
The Indian side suffered 125 casualties while the Pakistani forces lost 67 men.
The Indian state police confirms as many as 331 deaths while in custody and 111 enforced disappearances since 1989.
The Indian troops, which were airlifted in the early hours of 27 October, secured the Srinagar airport.
The Indian viewpoint is succinctly summarised by the Indian Ministry of External affairs.
The Indians continued to attack in the Kashmir Valley sector driving north to capture Keran and Gurais (Operation Eraze).
The Indians held onto Jhanger against numerous counterattacks, who were increasingly supported by regular Pakistani Forces.
The Indians managed on holding both the capital and airfield overnight against extreme odds.
The Indians now started to get the upper hand in all sectors.
The Indians pursued as far as Kargil before being forced to halt due to supply problems.
The Indians quickly overran the country, selectively engaging or bypassing heavily defended strongholds.
The India–Pakistan border is one of the most militarized international boundaries in the world.
The India–Pakistan border is the official international boundary that demarcates the Indian states of Punjab, Rajasthan and Gujarat from the Pakistani provinces of Punjab and Sindh.
The India–Pakistan war of 1965, also known as the second Kashmir war, was an armed conflict between Pakistan and India that took place from August 1965 to September 1965.
The Indo-Pakistani War of 1947 began to take place in Kashmir region in 1947.
The Indo-Pakistani War of 1947-1948 concluded with the Line of Control bisecting the Ladakh district, with the Skardu tehsil going to Pakistan (now part of Gilgit-Baltistan).
The Indo-Pakistani War of 1971 led to a loss for Pakistan and a military surrender in East Pakistan.
The Indo-Pakistani conflict was sparked by the Bangladesh Liberation War, which was a result of the violation of the rights of East Pakistan by the Pakistan Army.
The Indo-Pakistani war of 1947–1948, also known as the first Kashmir war, was a war fought between India and Pakistan over the princely state of Jammu and Kashmir from 1947 to 1948.
The Indus Waters Treaty governs the rivers that flow from India into Pakistan.
The Insaf Student Federation (ISF) serves as the official student wing of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf.
The Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) (Urdu: انٹر سروسز انٹیلی جنس) is the foreign intelligence agency agency of Pakistan.
The Inter-Services Intelligence service would report directly to the Prime Minister of Pakistan, and the defence budget would be audited by the government.
The Inter-Services Intelligence was established in 1948 by officers of the Pakistan Army after the First Kashmir War, the first of several Indo-Pakistani wars and conflicts.
The Inter-Services Intelligence's Joint Intelligence North and Military Intelligence's Northern Areas Assessment directorate began to formulate the plan to infiltrate in Kashmir.
The Inter-Services Public Relations called the allegations baseless and irresponsible.
The Inter-Services Public Relations said it backed neither PTI nor PAT.
The Interim Constitution Act provides for two executive forums—the Azad Kashmir Government in Muzaffarabad and the Azad Kashmir Council in Islamabad.
The Interim Constitution dealt in detail with the distribution of powers between the Centre and the Provinces.
The Interim Constitution of Pakistan was adopted here in April, 1972.
The International Commission of Jurists also expressed concern over judicial independence by arguing that the appointing body should not be under the direct control of the executive.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) had suspended aid, demanding the country's finances be resolved.
The Iranian military fearing a spread of the greater Baloch resistance in Iran also aided the Bhutto-sent Pakistan military in brutally putting down the insurrection.
The Iranian military, also fearing a spread of the greater Baloch resistance in Iran, aided the Pakistani military as well.
The Islamabad High Court (IHC) granted him bail on humanitarian grounds in October 2019, and Nawaz went to London for medical treatment.
The Islamic Republic of Pakistan emerged as an independent country through the partition of India in August 1947 and was admitted as a United Nations member state in September 1947.
The Islamic Republic of Pakistan, established diplomatic relationship with the Republic of Tajikistan in 1992, but cooperation between these two countries started from 1991.
The Islamic studies scholar Akbar S. Ahmed, who went to school with Bhutto, wrote that she was a "pampered and precocious" child.
The Islamists started a Nizam-e-Mustafa movement which demanded the establishment of an Islamic state in the country and the removal of immorality from society.
The Israeli pilot later succumbed to wounds he sustained during ejection.
The JUH was against colonialism and for a united India, opposing the formation of a separate homeland for Indian Muslims.
The JUI (F) has also played a role in brokering peace deals between the military and militants in Pakistan's tribal belt.
The JUI (F) was also the largest party in the MMA, winning 41 seats in the National Assembly and 29 of the MMA's 48 seats in NWFP in the 2002 elections.
The JUI also participated in the 1970 elections with the Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan and the Jamiat Ulema-e-Pakistan (JUP).
The JUI became more politically active under Maulana Mufti Mahmood (1919–1980), who assumed its leadership in 1962.
The JUI follows the Deobandi school of Sunni Islam.
The JUI traces its roots to politically active Deobandi who formed the Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind (JUH) in 1919 in British India.
The Jammu division of the state got caught up in the Partition violence.
The Jana Sangh joined hands with the Hindu Mahasabha and Ram Rajya Parishad to launch a parallel agitation in Delhi.
The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in December 1941 brought the United States into the war.
The Jinnah Mansion in Malabar Hill, Bombay, is in the possession of the Government of India, but the issue of its ownership has been disputed by the Government of Pakistan.
The Jinnah Society also confers the 'Jinnah Award' annually to a person that renders outstanding and meritorious services to Pakistan and its people.
The Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee was formed after a careful analysis of the Pakistan Armed Forces, and it is the principal body that maintains coordination between the armed forces.
The Joint Signal Intelligence Bureau (JSIB) provide communications support to groups in Kashmir.
The Joint Signal Intelligence Bureau (JSIB) provides support with communications to groups in Jammu and Kashmir.
The Judicial branch forms with the composition of the Supreme Court as an apex court, alongside the high courts and other inferior courts.
The Kalurghat Radio Station's transmission capability was limited, but the message was picked up by a Japanese ship in the Bay of Bengal.
The Karachi Nuclear Power Plant (KANUPP-I) was inaugurated by Bhutto during his role as the president of Pakistan at the end of 1972.
The Kargil War is the most recent example of high-altitude warfare in mountainous terrain, and as such, posed significant logistical problems for the combatting sides.
The Kargil War memorial, built by the Indian Army, is located in Dras, in the foothills of the Tololing Hill.
The Kargil War was significant for the impact and influence of the mass media on public opinion in both nations.
The Kargil area, before the commencement of the engagement, was primarily enforced by 121 (I) infantry brigade commanded by Brig.
The Kartarpur Corridor was opened in November 2019.
The Karzai administration in Afghanistan has close relations with the Pashtun nationalist Awami National Party (ANP) and the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP).
The Kashmir State army was able to defend Skardu from the Gilgit Scouts impeding their advance down the Indus valley towards Leh.
The Kashmir War had exposed weaknesses in intelligence gathering, sharing, and coordination between military branches and Pakistani Intelligence Bureau (IB) and Military Intelligence (MI).
The Kashmir conflict is a territorial conflict over the Kashmir region, primarily between India and Pakistan, and also between China and India in the northeastern portion of the region.
The Kashmir province consisting of the Kashmir Valley and the Muzaffarabad district had a majority Muslim population (over 90%).
The Kashmiri people, on the other hand, remained calm and collected.
The Kashmiris have the blood of the mujahids and ghazis.
The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Right to Information Bill was passed in the provincial assembly on 31 October 2013.
The Lahore High Court agreed to acquit him if he could prove his innocence, but Nawaz was unable to cite any substantial evidence.
The Lal Masjid mosque in Islamabad had a religious school for women and the Jamia Hafsa madrassa, which was attached to the mosque.
The Language Movement began in 1948, as civil society protested the removal of Bengali script from currency and stamps, which were in place since the British Raj.
The Leader of the House is the highest-ranking representative of the majority party in the National Assembly, usually the Prime Minister.
The Leader of the Opposition is the highest-ranking representative of the main opposition party.
The League refused to do so, and took no part in the constitutional discussions.
The League reluctantly accepted the scheme, though expressing reservations about the weak parliament.
The League was slower to do so, not entering until October 1946.
The Legislatures, both at center and in provinces were unicameral.
The Local government functions at the basic level.
The London-based international organization International Centre for Parliamentary Studies (ICPS) awarded ECP/Pakistan two International Awards i.e.
The MOFA is also responsible for maintaining Pakistani government offices abroad with diplomatic and consular status.
The MQM and the PPP opposed Nawaz due to his focus on beautifying Punjab and Kashmir while neglecting Sindh, and the MQM also opposed Nawaz's conservatism.
The MQM is generally known as a party that once held strong mobilizing potential in Karachi, having traditionally been the dominant political force in the city.
The MQM then joined other voices in calling for a general strike to protest Bhutto's government.
The MQM-A (Altaf) routinely denied involvement in violence.
The MQM–London faction is controlled by Altaf Hussain from London, while the separate MQM–Pakistan is run by Khalid Maqbool Siddiqui based in Pakistan.
The Maharaja complied, and the Government of India recognised the accession of the princely state to India.
The Maharaja himself was implicated in some instances.
The Maharaja initially fought back but appealed for assistance to the Governor-General Louis Mountbatten, who agreed on the condition that the ruler accede to India.
The Maharaja made an urgent plea to Delhi for military assistance.
The Maharaja released Sheikh Abdullah on 29 September.
The Maharaja requested military assistance from India.
The Maharaja was increasingly driven to the wall with the rebellion in the western districts and the Pakistani blockade.
The Majlis-e-Shoora shall reconsider the bill in a joint sitting.
The Maldives and Pakistan are culturally very close in sharing a Sunni majority.
The Mazar-e-Quaid, Jinnah's mausoleum, is among Karachi's notable landmarks.
The Members of the National Assembly are to be elected by direct and free vote in accordance with law.
The Military Government appointed a Constitution Commission in February 1960 which framed the 1962 Constitution.
The Military Police arrested Bhutto and put him on house arrest.
The Military Police arrested many in the military services; more than 14 officers were charged for plotting the coup.
The Military Police held former prime minister Sharif under house arrest at a government guesthouse and opened his Lahore home to the public in late October 1999.
The Military government and General Yahya Khan was kept unaware of these developments.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs is Cabinet member who responsible maintaining Pakistan's foreign policy as well as its diplomatic missions abroad.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs described the escalation as "deeply disturbing" and warned that further aggression would have grave consequences for the region.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan reiterated the claim, alleging that facilitators based in Afghanistan were involved in organizing the operation.
The Ministry of Women Development (MWD) was the designated national focal machinery for its implementation.
The MoU on Bilateral Political Consultations between Pakistan and Libya was signed on 2 May 2009.
The Mohtasib is empowered to award compensation to those who have suffered loss or damage as a result of maladministration.
The Mukti Bahini became increasingly active.
The Mukti Bahini forces were given two to five weeks of training by the Indian army on guerrilla warfare.
The Municipal Park, where he was assassinated, was renamed Liaquat Bagh (Bagh means Garden) in his honor.
The Musharraf presidency also suffered with containing the religiously-motivated terrorism, violence, tribal nationalism, and Islamic fundamentalism.
The Musharraf-backed liberals eventually mustered the two-thirds majority required to pass the 17th Amendment to the Constitution of Pakistan.
The Muslim Conference derived popular support among the Muslims of the Jammu region, and some from the Valley.
The Muslim League accepted this plan as it contained the 'essence' of Pakistan but the Congress rejected it.
The Muslim League declared that they would campaign on a single issue: Pakistan.
The Muslim League found it difficult to compete with socialists in West Pakistan, and lost considerable support in favor of socialists led by Marxist leader Faiz Ahmad Faiz.
The Muslim League had also proposed the hostage population theory.
The Muslim League of the Indian subcontinent had, since the middle of twentieth century, demanded for a separate homeland on the basis of the Two-nation theory.
The Muslim League won 87% of seats reserved for Muslims of British India.
The Muslim League's claims that it alone could safeguard Muslim interests thus received a major boost.
The Muslim majority suffered under the high taxes of the administration and had few opportunities for growth and advancement.
The Muslims of Guyana provided moral support for the Independence of Pakistan.
The Muslims of Poonch had long campaigned for the principality to be absorbed into the Punjab province of British India.
The NDFC is currently the largest development finance institution in Pakistan, engaging in diversified activities in industrial financing and investment banking.
The National Accountability Bureau (NAB) could not establish Sharif's relationship with 16 companies involved in the corruption reference.
The National Assembly approved the new 1973 Constitution, which Bhutto signed into effect on 12 April.
The National Assembly can also be summoned by the Speaker of the National Assembly on a request made by one-fourth of the total membership of the National Assembly.
The National Assembly can be dissolved at the initiative of the Prime Minister.
The National Assembly can only be dissolved by the President of Pakistan on the Prime Minister of Pakistan advice, it cannot be dissolved by the Prime Minister alone.
The National Assembly consists of 342 Seats including 60 seats reserved for Women and 10 Seats reserved for Non-Muslims.
The National Assembly consists of 342 members.
The National Assembly has 336 members, including 60 seats reserved for women and 10 for Non-Muslims, as per Article 51.
The National Assembly has 336 seats, 266 of which are directly elected, 60 are reserved for women and a further 10 for religious minorities5.
The National Assembly has an edge over the Senate by legislating exclusively on money matters.
The National Assembly is divided into sessions.
The National Assembly is elected for a five-year term based on adult franchise and one person, one vote.
The National Assembly makes laws for the Federation in respect of the powers enumerated in the Federal Legislative list.
The National Assembly meets on the twenty-first day after a general election (at least every five years) unless the president calls for a vote of no confidence.
The National Assembly of Pakistan is the country's sovereign legislative body.
The National Assembly of Pakistan,[a] also referred to as Aiwān-ē-Zairīñ,[b] is the lower house of the bicameral Parliament of Pakistan, with the upper house being the Senate.
The National Assembly voted in favour of the "Women's Protection Bill" on 15 November 2006 and the Senate approved it on 23 November 2006.
The National Assembly was summoned four days later to discuss impeachment proceedings.
The National Conference also worked with the Indian Army to secure the city.
The National Conference eventually became a leading member of the All-India States Peoples' Conference, a Congress-sponsored confederation of the political movements in the princely states.
The National Conference rejected this resolution and Nehru supported this by telling Dr Graham that he would receive no help in implementing the Resolution.
The National Council is responsible for electing central office-bearers.
The National Council serves as the governing body of the PTI.
The National Democratic Party merged with several other progressive political and nationalist groups to form the Awami National Party.
The National Intelligence Coordination Committee (NICC) of Pakistan is headed by the Director-General of Inter-Services Intelligence.
The National Security Council (NSC) also expressed concerns about foreign interference.
The Navy acted immediately, and jumped in the conflict.
The Navy began its separate operations to seize the shipments sent to aid Baloch separatists.
The Nawab of Murshidabad family was an influential and wealthy feudal family in Bengal, with close ties to the British monarchy.
The Nehru Report favoured constituencies based on geography on the ground that being dependent on each other for election would bind the communities closer together.
The News International reported that Khan paid nearly Rs4.7 million in taxes between 1981 and 2017, with exemptions in several years.
The Nixon administration also ignored reports it received of the genocidal activities of the Pakistani Army in East Pakistan, most notably the Blood telegram.
The OHCHR reports on Kashmir released two reports on "the situation of human rights in Indian-Administered Kashmir and Pakistan-Administered Kashmir".
The Objectives Resolution affirmed the role of democracy and contained religious provisions to enable society to adhere to the teachings of the Quran and Sunnah.
The Objectives Resolution declared that sovereignty over the entire universe belongs to Allah Almighty.
The Objectives Resolution has henceforth been inserted as a preamble into each of Pakistan's subsequent constitutions.
The Offence of Zina (Enforcement of Hudood) Ordinance, 1979 was a subcategory of the Hudood Ordinance.
The Offence of Zina in the Enforcement Of Hudood Ordinance criminalizes any form of penetration in a sexual act outside of marriage.
The Official Residence and the Workplace of the President is Aiwan-e-Sadr— the presidential palace located in northeastern Islamabad.
The One Unit Program and the centralisation of the national economy on the Soviet model was met with great hostility and resistance in West Pakistan.
The Ordinance also lifted Musharraf's ban on individuals serving more than two terms as prime minister.
The PAEC also played its part in the success and development of the uranium enrichment programme by producing the uranium hexafluoride gas feedstock for enrichment.
The PAF claimed it shot down 104 IAF planes and lost 19 of its own, while the IAF claimed it shot down 73 PAF planes and lost 59.
The PAF deployed its F-6s mainly on defensive combat air patrol missions over their own bases, leaving the PAF unable to conduct effective offensive operations.
The PAF played a more limited role in the operations.
The PAF's F-104 Starfighter was the fastest fighter operating in the subcontinent at that time and was often referred to as "the pride of the PAF".
The PAF's aircraft were largely of American origin, whereas the IAF flew an assortment of British and Soviet airplanes.
The PAF's fighter force comprised 102 F-86F Sabres and 12 F-104 Starfighters, along with 24 B-57 Canberra bombers.
The PDM is political movement founded in September 2020, which is based on allegations of rigging in the 2018 Pakistani general election, which Imran Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf won.
The PML (N), headed by Nawaz Sharif, won, while he alleged vote-rigging.
The PML government was short-lived and soon its government fell in the aftermath of the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971.
The PML was presided over by Fatima Jinnah, who actively participated in presidential elections held in 1965 against Muhammad Ayub Khan.
The PML(Z) was also merged into the PTI.
The PML, including Sharif and Hussain, were a conglomerate of diverse views and had provided large capital for the Muslim League's financial expenses.
The PML-N and Sharif himself were shocked when they learned the news of Benazir Bhutto's dismissal.
The PML-N appealed to the Supreme Court, which then restored Sharif's government on 26 May.
The PML-N called for the impeachment of President Pervez Musharraf, and successfully ousted him from the presidency and exiled him to the United States in 2008.
The PML-N charged Benazir Bhutto with corruption, stagnation, and endangering national security.
The PML-N gained national prominence in the 1993 parliamentary elections and occupied 73 seats in the state parliament.
The PML-N government passed the Thirteenth and the Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of Pakistan to stabilize its mandate and strengthen its position.
The PML-N government was dissolved after completion of the parliamentary term.
The PML-N is ideologically close to the military and holds common beliefs on national security.
The PML-N rejected this, accusing officials of campaign interference.
The PML-N tried to get Pervez Musharraf to stand trial under Article 6 of the Constitution for treason in relation to the emergency on 3 November 2007.
The PML-N was still part of the Islami Jamhoori Ittehad (IJI) and participated, under the leadership of Nawaz Sharif, in the 1990 general elections.
The PML-N's conservative hardliners also chose to blame the US and NATO for causing terrorism in Pakistan.
The PML-N's leadership remains an avid supporter of Indian-held Kashmir, and numerous times it had made it clear that the party will "never compromise this long standing position on Kashmir dispute".
The PML-N, the clear winner on 30 constituencies and still competing on 10 Punjab Assembly seats, suddenly came up winning in about 137 seats in total.
The PML-Q formed a government with far-right religious parties coalition, the MMA and the liberals MQM; the coalition legitimised Musharraf's rule.
The PNA declared the newly elected Bhutto government illegitimate, with hard-line Islamist leaders like Maulana Maududi calling for Bhutto's overthrow.
The PNA immediately called for street boycott and demanded resignation of Prime Minister Bhutto.
The PNA leadership was astonished when the results were announced by the Election Commission (EC) and refused to accept the results and accused the Government of systematic rigging.
The PNA used mosques to agitate the masses and caused severe civil unrests.
The PNA was united behind religious slogans and a right-wing political agenda.
The PNNABRO, among many other requirements demands that a publisher provides his bank details.
The PPP Government made dramatic reforms in women's rights.
The PPP accepted almost all demands of the PNA and the stage was set for a compromise.
The PPP accused the government of a cover-up, with several PPP figures claiming that Bhutto had been killed by a sniper linked to the intelligence agencies.
The PPP also suffered due to internal factions, one of which was led by Murtaza Bhutto.
The PPP and PML (N) formed the new coalition government with Yousaf Raza Gillani as Prime Minister of Pakistan.
The PPP and PML-N launched protests at Musharraf's actions.
The PPP created the 1973 Constitution with the support of Islamists.
The PPP had secured only 18 seats in the National Assembly.
The PPP held that nationalisation policy was given constitutional status by parliament, and that privatisation policies were illegal and had taken place without parliamentary approval.
The PPP realised the seriousness of the crises and political negotiations were started in June 1977.
The PPP threatened to stage a large scale general strike all over the country.
The PPP used the motto "Islam is our faith, democracy is our policy, socialism is our economy.
The PPP was not willing to dilute the authority of the federal government in spite of assuring full provincial autonomy for all the provinces of Pakistan.
The PPP's intellectuals maintained that the Awami League had no mandate in West Pakistan.
The PPP's manifesto called for greater civilian oversight of, and restrictions on, the military and intelligence agencies.
The PPP, on the other hand, campaigned on a platform of social justice in agriculture and industry.
The PPP-Young Organization is a youth-led party organisation that attempts to mobilise the youth for Peoples Party candidates for the Youth Parliament.
The PPP-led government continued to survive.
The PRC has provided economic, military, and technical assistance to Pakistan, and each country considers the other a close strategic ally.
The PTI accused the body of suppressing its presence on social media.
The PTI advocated the establishment of South Punjab and Gilgit Baltistan as formal provinces of Pakistan.
The PTI alleged that this was in violation of article 63(a) of the Pakistani constitution.
The PTI also raised issue of religious tolerance and greater representation for minorities.
The PTI hopes to have a relationship with the US that would be based on "self-dignity and respect" and promised to stop all foreign aid to Pakistan.
The PTI proposed civilian control of Pakistan's military.
The PTI ranks among the three major Pakistani political parties alongside the Pakistan Muslim League–Nawaz (PML–N) and the Pakistan People's Party (PPP).
The PTI remained in opposition and chose Omar Ayub Khan as opposition head.
The PTI terms itself an anti–status quo movement advocating an Islamic democracy centred on egalitarianism.
The PTI was banned from using its cricket bat icon and its candidates were forced to run as independents.
The PTI's goal is to transform Pakistan into an "Islamic welfare state" that creates an equal society based on Medina state (Riyasat-e-Madinah).
The PTI, PML(N) & PPP has almost always won landslide victories in provincial elections in Sindh, and has almost always held the province’s seats.
The PTI-led Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government, known as the Pervez Khattak Administration presented a balanced, tax-free budget for the fiscal year 2013–14.
The PTV channels are controlled by the government and opposition views are not given much time.
The Pakistan Administrative Service, previously known as the District Management Group before 1 June 2012, is an elite cadre of the Civil Service of Pakistan.
The Pakistan Air Force (PAF) launched a preemptive strike on Indian Air Force bases on 3 December 1971.
The Pakistan Air Force had fought well in countering the much larger Indian Air Force and supported the ground forces.
The Pakistan Air Force runs the Shaheen Foundation which founded Shaheen Insurance in 1995 as a joint venture with a South African insurance company, Hollard Group.
The Pakistan Armed Forces wanted to establish military garrisons in Balochistan Province, which at that time was quite lawless and run by tribal justice.
The Pakistan Army also kept numerous Bengali women as sex slaves inside the Dacca Cantonment.
The Pakistan Army and ISI also LeT volunteers to surreptitiously penetrate from Pakistan Administrated Kashmir to Jammu and Kashmir.
The Pakistan Army builds major civil engineering landmarks in the country, including the Karakoram Highway, Skardu Airport, and the national security sites in Kahuta.
The Pakistan Army has a division dedicated towards conducting the unconventional and asymmetric warfare operations, established with the guidance provided by the United States Army in 1956.
The Pakistan Army has played an integral part in the civil society of Pakistan, almost since its inception.
The Pakistan Army has received foreign awards for its services to other nations.
The Pakistan Army is claimed to have put up a "valiant defense of the motherland" and forced the attack in its tracks.
The Pakistan Army is operationally and geographically divided into various corps.
The Pakistan Army launched numerous covert operations to infiltrate and sabotage Indian airbases.
The Pakistan Army made available arms, ammunition, and supplies to the rebel forces who were dubbed the "Azad Army".
The Pakistan Army or Pak Army (Urdu: پاک فوج, romanized: Pāk Fauj, pronounced [ˈpaːk fɔːdʒ]) is the land service branch and the largest component of the Pakistan Armed Forces.
The Pakistan Army originally conceived the Kargil war plan after the Siachen conflict but the plan was rebuffed repeatedly by senior civilian and military officials.
The Pakistan Army withdrew their remaining troops from the area, ending the conflict.
The Pakistan Army's business interests, managed through foundations like the Fauji Foundation, have been a subject of international scrutiny.
The Pakistan Army's landmark civil engineering projects included the Lyari Expressway in Karachi, Makran Coastal Highway in Balochistan and the Khanpur Dam in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa.
The Pakistan Army's violent crackdown led to Awami League leader Sheikh Mujibur Rahman declaring East Pakistan's independence as the state of Bangladesh on 26 March 1971.
The Pakistan Army, backed by Islamists, created radical religious militias—the Razakars, Al-Badr and Al-Shams—to assist it during raids on the local populace.
The Pakistan Constitution guides general elections in Part VIII, Chapter 2 and various amendments.
The Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority (PEMRA) has been used to silence the broadcast media by either suspending licenses or by simply threatening to do so.
The Pakistan Movement started when the first Muslim (Muhammad bin Qasim) put his foot on the soil of Sindh, the gateway of Islam in India.
The Pakistan Muslim League (N) generally opposes labour union management and large-scale workers' unions.
The Pakistan Muslim League (N) is credited for ordering and authorizing the country's first nuclear tests (see Chagai-I and Chagai-II) amid immense international pressure.
The Pakistan Muslim League (N) policies include conservative liberalism, environmental conservation, and most importantly, economic liberalism.
The Pakistan Muslim League (N) remains sceptical about the country's role in the war on terror, although it is firmly opposed to religious extremism and terrorism in all its manifestations.
The Pakistan Muslim League (N) struck its remarkable, biggest, and most notable achievement in the 1997 parliamentary elections, held on 3 February 1997.
The Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) (abbr.
The Pakistan Muslim League (PML), led by Nurul Amin, was the only party to have representation from all over the country, but it failed to gain the mandate to run the government.
The Pakistan Muslim League - Nawaz is a Pakistani conservative political party that was founded in 1993 by senior politician, Nawaz Sharif.
The Pakistan Muslim League went into a political abyss after the death of Nurul Amin and during the PPP government of Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
The Pakistan Navy prohibits women from serving in the combat branch.
The Pakistan Penal Code outlaws blasphemy (Urdu: قانون ناموس رسالت) against any recognized religion, with punishments ranging from a fine to the death penalty.
The Pakistan People's Party (PPP) was founded with Zulfikar Ali Bhutto as its first elected chairman.
The Pakistan People's Party (PPP)[a] is a Pakistani political party with a centre-left to leftist political position and a democratic socialist ideology.
The Pakistan People's Party is a political party founded in 1967 by statesman, barrister and senior politician, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
The Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) came to power after the general elections held in 1970.
The Pakistan Peoples Party questioned the results and contested Awami League's mandate to form the central government as Awami League had failed to win won a single seat.
The Pakistan Peoples Party through Zulfikar Ali Bhutto proudly receives all credit for launching the atomic bomb project in 1972, public ceremonies are held on Youm-e-Takbir (lit.
The Pakistan Peoples Party won the first Gilgit-Baltistan elections and was the only major party of Gilgit-Baltistan with 20 seats out of 33.
The Pakistan Peoples Party's leftist program remains far more successful and integrated in the civil society than the Communist Party.
The Pakistan Resolution was adopted in 1940 at the Lahore session of the Muslim League.
The Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI)[a] is a political party in Pakistan established in 1996 by cricketer and politician Imran Khan, who served as the country's prime minister from 2018 to 2022.
The Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf is a political party founded in 1996 by cricketer-turned-politician, Imran Khan.
The Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf won a landslide victory on 15 of those 20 seats, leading to the collapse of Chief Minister Hamza Shahbaz's PML(N)-led coalition government.
The Pakistan Telecommunication Authority required telecoms to filter Short Message Service (text messaging) for more than 1,000 offensive keywords from 21 November 2011.
The Pakistan army made available arms, ammunition and supplies to the rebel forces who were dubbed the "Azad Army".
The Pakistan government held that the state of Jammu and Kashmir had executed a standstill agreement with Pakistan which precluded it from entering into agreements with other countries.
The Pakistan government officially named him Pakistan's "national poet".
The Pakistani 14 Division ordered the destruction of the bridge, allowing for the Pakistani troops to ferry across the Meghna rivier and strengthen the defense of Bhairab Bazaar.
The Pakistani 23 Armoured Division under Maj Gen Iftikhar Janjua pushed through the region held by the Indian 10 Division with superior equipment commanded by Maj Gen Jaswant Singh.
The Pakistani Air Force had strafed the entire area, and also hit a railway train coming from Barmer with reinforcements near Gadra Road railway station.
The Pakistani Army didn't know that Indian leaders wanted to attack the southern part of the country to start a new war.
The Pakistani Army held the bridges over the canal or blew up those it could not hold, effectively stalling any further advance by the Indians on Lahore.
The Pakistani Army's failures began with the supposition that a generally discontented Kashmiri people would revolt against their Indian rulers, bringing about a swift and decisive victory.
The Pakistani Constitution does not explicitly make mention of sexual orientation or gender identity.
The Pakistani Constitution guarantees freedom of expression and the basic premise for media freedom.
The Pakistani Constitution limits Censorship in Pakistan, but allows "reasonable restrictions in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of Pakistan or public order or morality".
The Pakistani DGMO Tauqir Zia communicated to the Indian DGMO Nirmal Chander Vij that Pakistan was uncomfortable with the escalations.
The Pakistani Government has always shown resistance towards the issue of LGBTQ rights and never hid its intolerance.
The Pakistani Penal Code of 1860, originally developed under the British Raj, criminalises sodomy with possible penalties of prison sentences from two years to a life sentence and fines.
The Pakistani Taliban (TTP) has been a flashpoint in Afghanistan–Pakistan relations.
The Pakistani Taliban and Talal Bugti threatened to kill him should he return.
The Pakistani ambassador to Austria is cross-accredited be the non-residential ambassador to Slovakia.
The Pakistani ambassador to Italy is accredited as a non-residential ambassador to San Marino.
The Pakistani ambassador to Romania is accredited as a non-residential ambassador to Moldova.
The Pakistani army denied any cold-blooded killings at the university, but the Hamoodur Rahman Commission in Pakistan concluded that overwhelming force was used.
The Pakistani authorities govern Azad Kashmir with strict controls on basic freedoms".
The Pakistani authorities unsuccessfully tried to secure her arrest and extradition through Interpol.
The Pakistani constitution mandates the role of the president of Pakistan as the civilian commander-in-chief of the Pakistani military.
The Pakistani demand resulted in the Muslim League becoming pitted against both the Congress and the British.
The Pakistani economy suffered $23.77 billion in 2010-11 due to expenses related to war on terrorism.
The Pakistani embassy is located in Moscow.
The Pakistani forces under Brig S. A. Hassan raised the white flag on 15 December.
The Pakistani general election of 2013 were held on 11 May 2013.
The Pakistani government denied any role and raised the issue of human rights violations by Indian security forces.
The Pakistani government denies it supports terrorists, only saying it has supported "freedom fighters" in the past.
The Pakistani government disbanded the ISI's political wing in 2008 after its discovery.
The Pakistani government dismissed the charges against its minister as an attempt to hamper the ongoing peace process between the two neighbours.
The Pakistani government has denied the accusation and accused India of sponsoring so-called "state-backed terror".
The Pakistani government has taken significant action against undocumented migrants inside the country and has been expelling all undocumented Afghans.
The Pakistani government intensified its grip on the media, leading to media professionals experiencing heightened coercion, censorship, and a surge in journalist arrests.
The Pakistani government was accused of spreading misinformation about the consequences of the war among its citizens.
The Pakistani government was bankrupt, with Zia having borrowed at high-interest rates to pay government wages.
The Pakistani government's view was that it had to launch a campaign to neutralise a rebellion in East Pakistan to save the unity of Pakistan.
The Pakistani media criticised this apparent curbing of freedom of the press in India, while India media claimed it was in the interest of national security.
The Pakistani media landscape reflects a multi-linguistic, multi-ethnic and class-divided society.
The Pakistani military condemned the airstrike as an act of aggression, souring the relations between the two countries.
The Pakistani military sought to quell them, but increasingly many Bengali soldiers defected to this underground "Bangladesh army".
The Pakistani people were not mentally prepared to accept the magnitude of this kind of defeat, as the state media had been projecting imaginary victories.
The Pakistani point of view was that since Junagadh had a ruler and governing body who chose to accede to Pakistan, it should be allowed to do so.
The Pakistani prime minister Shehbaz Sharif announced that the country had received its first shipment of discounted Russian oil in 12 June.
The Pakistani shelling of the arterial road threatened to cut Leh off, though an alternative (and longer) road to Leh existed via Himachal Pradesh, the Leh–Manali Highway.
The Pakistani state used anti-Bihari violence by Bengalis in early March to justify Operation Searchlight.
The Pakistani state's economic outlook was geared towards urban industry, which was not compatible with East Pakistan's mainly agrarian economy.
The Pakistani tanks were more numerous and superior in quality, giving them a significant advantage.
The Pakistani women of today do, however, enjoy a better status than in the past.
The Pakistani women's rights activist Malala Yousafzai—who received the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize—cited Bhutto as a personal inspiration.
The Pakka Qila Operation was launched by Sindh Police to target MQM workers in Pakka Qilla Hyderabad.
The Panama Papers case was a landmark decision by the Supreme Court of Pakistan that disqualified the incumbent prime minister of Pakistan, Nawaz Sharif, from holding public office for life.
The Parishad accused Abdullah of communalism (sectarianism), favouring the Muslim interests in the state and sacrificing the interests of the others.
The Parliament enjoys parliamentary supremacy.
The Parliament of Pakistan consists of the president and two houses to be known respectively as National Assembly and the Senate.
The Parliament of Pakistan is bicameral, consisting of the National Assembly of Pakistan and the Senate.
The Parliament of Pakistan passed the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2018, which established broad protections for transgender people.
The Parliament of Pakistan – viz the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan – met on 10 August 1947 in the old Sindh Assembly Building at Karachi.
The Parliament of Pakistan, according to the Constitution of 1973, is bicameral.
The Parliament of Pakistan[a] is the supreme[b] legislative body of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
The Parliament scrutinises public spending and exercises control of expenditure incurred by the government through the work of the relevant standing committees.
The Parliament – the Senate and the National Assembly – have acquired a permanent abode in the present Parliament House, which was inaugurated on 28 May 1986.
The Parliamentary Committee confirms or may not confirm the nominee of the Judicial Commission.
The Part VII of the Constitution of Pakistan reconstituted the composition of Supreme Court and the high courts but it does not specify the number of justices to be served in the Supreme Court.
The Pashtun tribal attack was launched in the Muzaffarabad sector.
The Pashtuns were known historically as ethnic Afghans (and as Pathans in Pakistan and India) and have lived in this region for thousands of years, since at least the 1st millennium BC.
The People's Open University, another innovative venture, commenced operations in Islamabad.
The People's Party initiated education reforms that expanded the school network to slums and small villages, creating basic health facilities, land reforms and housing schemes.
The Peoples Party also has an active military-street wing, the Peoples' Aman Committee, controversially affiliated with the Pakistan Peoples Party.
The Peoples Party attacked the IDA government's record on unemployment and industrial racism.
The Peoples Party has been criticised by various socialists such as Fahad Rizwan who accused the Peoples Party of opportunism.
The Peoples Party member's notably provided their public support to Abdul Qadeer Khan who had been forced to attend the military debriefings by General Pervez Musharraf in 2004.
The Peoples Party spearheaded the pro-democratic movement in the country under Benazir Bhutto's direction against the martial law and boycotted the general elections in 1985.
The Persian quatrains convey the impression that the poet is travelling through the Hijaz in his imagination.
The Petrofine was "politically sensitive", they said, and "declined to accept Mrs. Bhutto as a client".
The Politics of Pakistan (سیاسیاتِ پاکستان ; ALA-LC: Siyāsiyāt-e-Pākistān) takes place within the framework established by the constitution.
The Praja Parishad undertook a civil disobedience campaign for a third time in November 1952, which again led to repression by the state government.
The President acts as the ceremonial figurehead while the people-elected prime minister acts as the chief executive (of the executive branch) and is responsible for running the federal government.
The President appointed his Cabinet members who were directly responsible to him.
The President is elected by members of both Houses of the Parliament and the Provincial Assemblies.
The President of Pakistan appoints the Chief Election Commissioner of Pakistan and four members of Election Commission.
The President of Pakistan, officially the President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, is the ceremonial head of state of Pakistan and the commander-in-chief of the Pakistan Armed Forces.
The President of Pakistan[a] is the head of state of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
The President then confirms the nomination summary and eventually appoints the Chief Justice and judges in the Supreme Court.
The President was the Head of State, and was to be elected by all Members of the National and Provincial Assemblies.
The President was to act on the advice of Prime Minister, except where he was empowered to act in his discretion.
The President's power to dismiss the Prime Minister and dissolve the National Assembly was removed by the Thirteenth Amendment and partially restored by the Seventeenth Amendment.
The President, according to the Constitution, is at the apex, representing the unity of the Republic.
The Press Council Ordinance has a direct link to the Press, Newspapers, News Agencies and Books Registration Ordinance (PNNABRO) of 2002.
The Pressler Amendment in 1990 suspended all American military assistance and any new economic aid amidst concerns that Pakistan was attempting to develop a nuclear weapon.
The Prime Minister and the Cabinet Ministers are jointly accountable to the Parliament.
The Prime Minister approved both the plans, and despatched Khurshid Anwar, the head of the Muslim League National Guard, to mobilise the Frontier tribes.
The Prime Minister is chosen from the National Assembly.
The Prime Minister is the final authority on all matters regarding the civil service.
The Prime Minister of Pakistan (Urdu: وزیراعظم; lit: Wazir-e- Azam), is the executive head of government of Pakistan, constitutionally designated as the Chief Executive (CE).
The Prime Minister of Pakistan is elected by the National Assembly.
The Prime Minister, who heads the Cabinet and is meant to aid and advise the president in his functions, belongs to the National Assembly.
The Prime Ministers of Pakistan and India met twice and the foreign secretaries conducted three rounds of talks.
The Prime minister's secretariat (official residence of Prime minister of Pakistan) was closed by the military police and its staff was fired by Musharraf immediately.
The Public Accounts Committee has a special role in reviewing the report of the auditor general.
The Punjab governor, Salman Taseer, was shot in 2011, after he publicly voiced his support for Bibi by his own bodyguard Mumtaz Qadri.
The Punjab provincial assembly has usually been split between the Pakistan Muslim League N (PML-N) and the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI).
The Punjab region was split into Punjab, Pakistan and Punjab, India following the independence and partition of the two countries in 1947.
The Punjabi people are today the largest ethnic group in Pakistan and also an important ethnic group of northern India.
The Quaid gave a reply to the address in the house, on which the principles of the State of Pakistan were laid.
The Quaid remained in this position till his death on 11 September 1948.
The Raja of Jammu Gulab Singh, who was a vassal of the Sikh Empire and an influential noble in the Sikh court, sent expeditions to various border kingdoms and ended up encircling Kashmir by 1840.
The Rangers expanded their mandate to kidnappers, and arrested 82 abductors and secured the release of 49 captives.
The Rawalpindi Conspiracy, as it became known, was the first attempted coup in Pakistan's history.
The Reagan administration and Reagan himself supported Pakistan's military regime, American officials visited the country on a routine basis.
The Reuters journalists claimed to see ballot stuffing and pressure to vote being placed on governmental employees.
The Russian Federation had to establish relations with Pakistan, which were severed at the initiative of the USSR back in the 1980s.
The Russian ambassador said no formal agreements were signed.
The Russian embassy is located in Islamabad.
The SAP was launched in 1992–1993 to accelerate improvement in the social indicators.
The Salafi jihadist militant group al-Qaeda claimed responsibility, although involvement of the Pakistani Taliban and rogue elements of the intelligence services were also hypothesised.
The Samjhauta Express is an international train that runs from New Delhi, India to Lahore, Pakistan, and is one of two trains to cross the India–Pakistan border.
The Second Amendment in the constitution declared the Ahmadis as non-Muslims and defined the term non-Muslim.
The Secretary is responsible for the day-to-day administration of the council and for implementing the decisions of the council.
The Secularists also held him responsible for promoting the Right-wing political forces controlling the country in the name of Islam and further politicised the Islam, despite its true nature.
The Senate consists of 104 Members including 17 Seats reserved for Women and 17 Seats reserved for Technocrats and Ulema.
The Senate has 104 members who serve six-year terms which are alternated so that half the senators are up for re-election by the electoral college every three years.
The Senate has several exclusive powers not granted to the National Assembly, including the powers of making parliamentary bills as a being enforced into law.
The Senate is a permanent legislative body with equal representation from each of the four provinces, elected by the members of their respective provincial assemblies.
The Senate is not subject to dissolution.
The Senate secretariat is located in the east wing of the Parliament Building; the National Assembly convenes in the west wing of the same building.
The Senate's role is to promote national cohesion and harmony and work as a stabilising factor of the federation.
The Senate, is a body which represents the provinces/territories of the country and promotes a feeling of equality, peace and harmony, which is essential for the growth and prosperity of a nation.
The Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth plans formulated under various democratically elected governments have clearly made efforts to include women's concerns in the planning process.
The Shariat Appellate Bench is composed of legal scholars that have expertise on Islamic jurisprudence since its establishment in 1980.
The Sharif family are Punjabi-speaking Kashmiris.
The Sharif government launched a ranger-led operation on 5 September 2013 in Karachi, aimed at removing crime and terrorism from the metropolis.
The Simla Agreement also stated that the two sides would meet again for establishing durable peace.
The Sindhi people are the native ethnic group of the Pakistani province of Sindh.
The Sixth Plan during the martial law régime of General Zia-ul-Haq (1977–1988) was full of policy contradictions.
The Social Action Program launched in 1992/93 aimed at reducing gender disparities by improving women's access to social services.
The Soviet Union accorded recognition to Bangladesh on 25 January 1972.
The Soviet Union continued economic aid to Pakistan and made sympathetic gestures to Pakistan until mid-October 1971.
The Soviet Union gave assurances to India that if a confrontation with the United States or China developed, it would take counter-measures.
The Soviet Union harshly criticised the coup and Leonid Brezhnev condemned Bhutto's execution out of "purely humane motives".
The Soviet Union reportedly warned Pakistan against the war, which they termed as "suicidal course for Pakistan's unity.
The Soviet Union sent advisors and experts to supervise the construction of the mega-project.
The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in December 1979 highlighted the common interest of Pakistan and the United States in opposing the Soviet Union.
The Soviet-Afghan jihad and the Islamic Revolution in Iran were becoming sources of inspiration for large numbers of Kashmiri Muslim youth.
The Soviets also had a nuclear submarine to help ward off the threat posed by the USS Enterprise task force in the Indian Ocean.
The Soviets also sent a nuclear submarine to ward off the threat posed by USS Enterprise in the Indian Ocean.
The Soviet–Afghan War in the 1980s saw the enhancement of the ISI's covert operations.
The Speaker of the House is the presiding officer of the National Assembly.
The State Forces garrison at the Poonch city came under heavy siege.
The State of Pakistan was created under the Independence Act of 1947.
The Supreme Court Building is designed by the renowned Japanese architect, Kenzo Tange, in a modernist style complementing the Parliament Building.
The Supreme Court Building is located at the Constitution Avenue in Islamabad, flanked by the Prime Minister's Office to the south, the Presidential Palace and the Parliament Building to the north.
The Supreme Court Judges are supervised by the Supreme Judicial Council.
The Supreme Court Library contains the collection of 72,000 law books, reports and journals is situated in the basement.
The Supreme Court Museum serves as an invaluable repository for preserving the judicial history of post- and pre-Independence era for future generation.
The Supreme Court also overruled and overturned its convictions that called for validation of martial law in 1958.
The Supreme Court and the Chief Justice of Pakistan Anwar-ul-Haq legitimatised the military response after issuing the Doctrine of necessity orders.
The Supreme Court building is within the ambit of the Islamabad Police, maintaining the law and order as well as campus security of the court.
The Supreme Court denied Hassan's release because he was held by Military Police, but the court agreed to hear the arguments.
The Supreme Court has a permanent seat in Islamabad and meets at the Supreme Court Building at the Red Zone.
The Supreme Court has an extensive competitive program for the appointment of the law clerks and research associates at the Supreme Court Library.
The Supreme Court has maintained its institutional integrity and has been able to maintain its authority to some degree in the face of martial law in Pakistan in last decades.
The Supreme Court has original, appellate, and advisory jurisdiction.
The Supreme Court hires the law clerks based on the recommendations provided by their professors from their respected universities and colleges.
The Supreme Court is empowered to frame its own rules for the purpose of regulating the practice and procedure of the Court.
The Supreme Court is the only federal court that has jurisdiction over the direct appeals from high courts decisions, as powers granted by the Constitution as an appellate jurisdiction.
The Supreme Court later declared the election of Hamza Shehbaz as Chief Minister unconstitutional and stated that the deputy speaker’s actions in the election were unconstitutional.
The Supreme Court later rendered the Act unconstitutional.
The Supreme Court of Pakistan Press is the official authority that publishes the reportable Supreme Court's decisions and opinions, as well as judicial supplements, law reports, and bibliographies.
The Supreme Court of Pakistan consists of a Chief Justice, and Senior Justices appointed by the President after consultation with the Chief Justice of Pakistan.
The Supreme Court of Pakistan declared the arrest illegal, citing the violation of judicial sanctity by paramilitary forces.
The Supreme Court of Pakistan has since then consistently followed this judgment.
The Supreme Court of Pakistan led by Chief Justice Irshad Hassan Khan validated the martial law under a "doctrine of necessity" but limited its legality to three years.
The Supreme Court of Pakistan ruled on 23 August 2007 that Nawaz and his brother, Shehbaz Sharif, were free to return to Pakistan.
The Supreme Court thus provides, in principle, an important safeguard against the abuse of laws that could potentially have politically repressive consequences or in clear violation of human rights.
The Supreme Court took notice of several important constitutional and other cases in the period that related to the public interest.
The Supreme Court validated the coup and gave General Pervez Musharraf three years to hold general elections.
The Supreme Court's decision also resulted in the removal of all pro-Bhutto elements from the military.
The Supreme Court's opinions are first published and is made available on the Court's web site, in form of "press release".
The Supreme Court, established in 1956, is the apex court in Pakistan's judicial hierarchy, the final arbiter of legal and constitutional disputes.
The TLP and its leader Khadim Hussain Rizvi strongly opposed the new language, and demanded the resignation of Pakistan's law minister Zahid Hamid, who had changed the law.
The TLP announced the strike with the intention of forcing the government into compliance with its wishes to decrease the price of petrol.
The TLP leaders Khadim Hussain Rizvi, Pir Afzal Qadri, Inayat Haq Shah, Farooqul Hassan were booked on charges of sedition and terrorism.
The TPG designed and developed the nuclear weapons as well as the entire program.
The Taliban claimed that they wanted to clean Afghanistan from the warlords and criminals.
The Taliban government called the decision "unacceptable" and urged Pakistan to reconsider.
The Taliban have been resurgent in recent years in both Afghanistan and Pakistan.
The Taliban movement was reportedly started by graduates of JUI seminaries.
The Taliban's rise coincided with a broader growth in opposition to Bhutto from Salafi Islamist groups.
The Taliban-led Afghan government has also accused Pakistan of undermining relations between Afghanistan and China and creating discord between the neighbouring countries.
The Taliban’s Ministry of National Defense condemned the late-night attack in Barmal, claiming in a statement on X that the victims were Pakistani refugee families residing in the area.
The Tashkent declaration was also criticised in Pakistan, even though few people were aware of the seriousness of the situation at the end of the conflict.
The Tehsils are used in all over the Pakistan except Sindh province where the word "Taluka" is used instead, although the functions and authorities are the same.
The Threat Matrix doctrine analyze the military's comprehensive operational priorities and goes beyond in comprehensively describing both existential and non-existential threats to the country.
The Torkham border crossing between Pakistan and Afghanistan was shut on 21 February 2025 due to a dispute over Afghan border post construction, disrupting trade and travel.
The U.S. began cooperation with Pakistan in peaceful space technology in the 1960s after establishing the Sonmiani Terminal in 1961, constructing an airfield and launch pad.
The U.S. blamed Pakistan's government, mainly Pakistani Army and its ISI spy network as the masterminds behind all of this.
The U.S. embassy declined to comment on the protest that also temporarily closed a route leading to one of two border crossings used for the shipments.
The U.S. establishment had the impression that the Soviets were in an informal alliance with India, and the US therefore needed Pakistan to help to limit Soviet influence in South Asia.
The U.S. has repeatedly dismissed Khan's allegations.
The U.S. sent special envoy Robert Gates to the region to dissuade the Pakistanis from going to war.
The U.S. under President Richard Nixon supported Pakistan in the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War.
The U.S. was funneling money to these mujahedeen through Pakistan, although preferred to deal directly with Beg, Gul, and Ishaq Khan rather than through Bhutto.
The U.S.'s troubled relationship with Pakistan continues to be eroded by crisis after crisis.
The U.S.-based Clooney Foundation for Justice (CFJ) released its findings in 2024 after monitoring 24 blasphemy lawsuits for six months during 2022 in Lahore, Punjab.
The UK Foreign Office states that it is vital that the right to freedom of expression continues to be upheld by the Pakistani Government.
The UK and Spain both dropped criminal investigations into Bhutto's corruption, although Switzerland refused to do so.
The UK equally sees an opportunity to counter instability and militancy through a combined military and 'hearts and minds' approach, through judicial, governance, and security sector reform.
The UK governed Pakistan from 1824 to 1947, when Pakistan achieved full independence.
The UK is also home to the Pakistan & India friendship forum.
The UN Security Council assembled on 4 December 1971 to discuss the hostilities in South Asia.
The UN Security Council called on India and Pakistan to honour the resolutions of plebiscite both had accepted in 1948 and 1949.
The UN mediators tended towards parity, which was not to India's satisfaction.
The UN noted that there had been arrests of homosexuals within the past three years in 2018, 2019 and 2022.
The UN remains a keen observer of the Kashmir conflict between Pakistan and India, centering on the disputed state of Jammu and Kashmir.
The UN resolution asked Pakistan to pull its Army out from Kashmir.
The UNCIP made three visits to the subcontinent between 1948 and 1949, trying to find a solution agreeable to both India and Pakistan.
The US Department of State had made an early, partial estimate of close to 700 fatalities.
The US and UK had supported Musharraf because of his role in assisting their war on terror—especially the War in Afghanistan—but they gradually lost faith in his ability to rule successfully.
The US government increasingly saw Bhutto as an important figure who could help to constrain Pakistan's domestic problems.
The US government stood by its old ally Pakistan in terms of diplomacy and military threats.
The US has adopted a joint ‘Af-Pak’ (Afghanistan and Pakistan) strategy in order to suppress the insurgency and defend its national security interests.
The US is stating that the aid was part of the Coalition Support Fund (CFS) and was not previously owed to the country.
The US played an ambiguous role instead with many charging that the martial law was imposed with the willingness and "tacit" approval of the US and the CIA's involvement.
The US president tried to alleviate India's concerns by offering similar weaponry to India.
The US publisher HarperCollins paid Bhutto half a million dollars to produce a book, to be titled Reconciliation.
The US signed a military pact with Pakistan in May by which Pakistan would receive military equipment and training.
The US turned neutral in the war when it cut off military supplies to Pakistan (and India); an action that the Pakistanis took as a sign of betrayal.
The US used the threat of an aid cut-off to force Pakistan to back down, while its continued military aid to Islamabad prevented India from launching incursions deeper into the country.
The USA in February 1954 announced that it wanted to provide military aid to Pakistan.
The USSR aided Pakistan economically on several technical and industrial projects.
The USSR also kept vetoing every resolution regarding the East Pakistan situation that Pakistan brought to the United Nations.
The Union Administrator serves as the head of the Union Council and is responsible for overseeing the administration of the council.
The Union Council also has a number of committees, which are responsible for specific areas such as finance, development, and social welfare.
The Union Council also receives funding and support from the provincial and federal governments.
The Union Council is the lowest tier of local government in Pakistan, and it works closely with the Tehsil and District governments to deliver services and implement development plans.
The United Group of Employees Management asked Bhutto for the issue of the regulation sheet which she denied.
The United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) was deployed to supervise the ceasefire between India and Pakistan.
The United States Central Intelligence Agency concurred that this was probable, although Mehsud denied the accusation.
The United States Congress voted to cut 33 million dollars in aid to Pakistan: 1 million dollars for every year that Shakil Afridi was sentenced to prison.
The United States and Britain proposed that if the two could not reach an agreement then arbitration would be considered.
The United States and Pakistan have experienced several military confrontations on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.
The United States and Pakistan's military have historically close ties, reflecting shared interests in security and stability in South Asia, Central Asia as well as in regions covering Eastern Europe.
The United States and the Soviet Union used significant diplomatic tools to prevent any further escalation in the conflict between the two South Asian nations.
The United States and the United Kingdom have been the principal suppliers of military matériel to India and Pakistan since 1947.
The United States began work on a policy to keep Pakistan impartial, and India on the other hand, remained a keystone to bringing stability in South Asia.
The United States cautiously supported Pakistan during the 1971 conflict, although Congress kept an arms embargo in place.
The United States continues to blame Pakistan's military for supporting non-state actors, including the Taliban.
The United States delayed recognition for some months, before according it on 8 April 1972.
The United States gladly accepted the offer and continued its aid throughout the years.
The United States government has responded by stating that it will take these allegations seriously.
The United States had been a major sponsor of Yahya's military government.
The United States has played an important role in the young history of Pakistan, being one of the first countries to recognize their independence on 14 August 1947.
The United States later used drone missiles to kill several of Pakistan's most wanted militants who were hiding in a remote region close to the Afghan border in November 2014.
The United States reissued a call urging Pakistan to act against the Haqqani Network or else the US would be forced to take on the threat unilaterally.
The United States showed displeasure at this act and withheld a further $300 million in assistance.
The United States then captured and transferred a senior Taliban commander, Latif Mehsud, to Pakistan, which had been seeking his arrest.
The United States took a tough stand on Pakistan's nuclear development, passing the Pressler amendment, while significantly improving the relations with India.
The United States' Condoleezza Rice and the UK's Jack Straw worked together to ensure a transition back to electoral democracy in Pakistan.
The United States, United Kingdom and most Western governments agree with India's interpretation.
The United States, also a key ally of Pakistan, was one of the last nations to accord Bangladesh recognition.
The United States, faced with a rival superpower looking as if it were to create another Communist bloc, now engaged Zia in fighting a US-supported war by proxy in Afghanistan against the Soviets.
The United States, however, also threatened to cut off aid to pressure Pakistan to end hostilities, but did not wish for India to dominate the new political landscape in South Asia either.
The Upper House is the Senate whilst the National Assembly is the lower house.
The Urdu media, particularly the newspapers, are widely read by the masses - mostly in rural areas.
The Urdu world is very familiar with Iqbal as the "Poet of the East".
The Viceroy also hurried so he could return to his senior technical Navy courses.
The Viceroy promised a representative body after the war to determine India's future, and that no future settlement would be imposed over the objections of a large part of the population.
The Viceroy was also influenced by negative Muslim reaction to the constitutional report of the assembly, which envisioned broad powers for the post-independence central government.
The Wagah border is the only road crossing between India and Pakistan and lies on the Grand Trunk Road, connecting Lahore, Pakistan with Amritsar, India.
The War Commission also looked into Pakistan's political and military involvement in the history of East Pakistan that encompasses 1947–71.
The War Enquiry Commission was mandated with carrying out thorough investigations into the intelligence, strategic, political and military failures that causes the defeat in the war.
The War Report's supplementary section was published by the Pakistan Government, but it did not officially hand over the report to Bangladesh despite its requests.
The West Pakistan Family Courts Act 1964 governs the jurisdiction of Family Courts.
The Western world not only inspired Jinnah in his political life, but also greatly influenced his personal preferences, particularly when it came to dress.
The Women's Protection Bill, however, has been criticized by many including human rights and women's rights activists for only paying lipservice and failing to repeal the Hudood Ordinances.
The Working Committee asked that the sub-committee return with a proposal that would result in "independent dominions in direct relationship with Great Britain" where Muslims were dominant.
The World's Largest Love Letter was recently sent from India to Pakistan.
The XVII amendment featured a semi-presidential system allowing the presidency to keep the interference[clarification needed] executive and the judiciary.
The Yahya administration is widely accused of permitting the army to commit the war crimes against the civilians in East and curbing civil liberties and human rights in Pakistan.
The Zabur-e-Ajam زبورِ عجم (Persian Psalms), published in 1927, includes the poems "Gulshan-e-Raz-e-Jadeed" ("Garden of New Secrets") and "Bandagi Nama" ("Book of Slavery").
The Zoji La pass was forced by using tanks (which had not been thought possible at that altitude) and Dras was recaptured.
The academic Anna Suvorova specified that Bhutto's assassination created "a real family cult", one which was "fuelled by various apocrypha, rituals, and relics".
The act has been challenged and in May 2023 the Federal Shariat Court of Pakistan ruled that the sections dealing with self-perceived gender were not in line with Islamic principles.
The action sparked protests in Pakistan and threatened relations between the United States and Pakistan, including aid flows.
The activities of the Plebiscite Front eventually led to the institution of the infamous Kashmir Conspiracy Case in 1958 and two other cases.
The activities of the language movement nurtured a sentiment among Bengalis in favor of discarding Pakistan's communalism in favor of secular politics.
The ad hoc appointments for this bench are drawn either from the Federal Shariat Court or from among the Clergy.
The administrative head of district judiciary is the 'district and sessions judge'.
The administrative machinery, from the police to vote counters, was reportedly aligned with state interests, suggesting widespread rigging.
The age limit for the high court judge is minimum 45 years.
The agreement was signed following the results of the first meeting of the Russian-Pakistani Joint Military Advisory Committee (JMCC).
The agreement, deeply unpopular in Pakistan, caused significant political unrest against Ayub's regime.
The aid during the Obama administration was more economic than military.
The air force also concentrated its strikes within Tiger hill.
The air force's vigilance was also influenced by the fact that some pilots were frantically re-enlisted six times in a single hour when they detected Indian air raids.
The alleged perpetrator, Muhammad Naveed, was overpowered by a supporter of Khan, throwing off his aim.
The alliance between Gandhi and the Khilafat faction did not last long, and the campaign of resistance proved less effective than hoped, as India's institutions continued to function.
The alliance formed a government in 1990 under the leadership of Nawaz Sharif.
The alliance was led by Nawaz and Ghulam Mustafa Jatoi and opposed Benazir Bhutto's Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) in the elections.
The ambulance broke down on the road into town, and the Governor-General and those with him waited for another to arrive; he could not be placed in the car as he could not sit up.
The amendment allowed the people in tribal areas to enjoy the same constitutional rights as other Pakistanis.
The amendment also established the Mingora Bench of the Peshawar High Court and the Turbat Bench of the High Court of Baluchistan.
The anniversary of his birth (Youm-e Weladat-e Muḥammad Iqbal), 9 November, is observed as a public holiday in Pakistan.
The announcement came a day after China Mobile subsidy Zong emerged as the highest bidder in the 3G auction, claiming a 10 MHz 3G-band licence, qualifying for the 4G licence.
The announcement of the 1995 budget was met with strikes and demonstrations.
The appeal concluded on 23 December 1978.
The appeal was admitted but remained unheard as of December 2016.
The appellant did not present any argument on the appeal because, according to reports, he was no longer alive.
The appointees include Justice Sarfraz Dogar (Islamabad High Court), Justice Rozi Khan Barrech (Balochistan), Justice Syed Muhammad Attique Shah (Peshawar), and Justice Junaid Ghaffar (Sindh).
The appointments were formalized by the law ministry under Article 193(1) of the Constitution.
The area is ruled directly through a chief executive Lt. Gen. Mohammed Shafiq, appointed by Islamabad with a 26-member Northern Areas Council.
The armed forces, the judiciary, and religion are topics that frequently attract the government's attention.
The armed separatists used a chainsaw to cut our bodies into pieces.
The armies have a schedule for organising joint military exercises.
The army "misled the nation with a big lie" – that India rather than Pakistan provoked the war – and that Pakistan won a "great victory".
The army acted as mediator between the protesters and the government.
The army cadets undergo training in Kakul at the Pakistan Military Academy where basic training takes place.
The army continues to deny independent monitors, lawyers, relatives, or humanitarian agencies access to the prisoners.
The army had suffered 25 fatalities and around 300 casualties in the fight while the rebels lost 5,000 people as of 1977.
The army has a powerful influence in Pakistani politics, and it has been able to silence Khan's critics.
The army has ruled Pakistan for more than half of its history and has always been unwilling to see its influence being compromised by any civilian leaders.
The army held the referendum and tightly control the political situation through the intelligence agencies, and banned the political activities in the country.
The army resisted this move, and Khan eventually backed down.
The army responded by cracking down on Khan's supporters, and several PTI leaders were arrested.
The army service uniform consists of a light khaki (tan) coloured long-sleeved shirt with matching trousers.
The arrested conspirators were tried in secret and given lengthy jail sentences.
The assembly was to be constituted of elected representatives of the people of the state.
The assent was given on it by the Governor General on 2 March 1956.
The associate chief justice of Peshawar High Court, Justice Saeeduzzaman Siddiqui, declared himself acting chief justice.
The atomic bomb project became fully mature in 1978, and a first cold test was conducted in 1983 (see Kirana-I).
The atomic bomb project brought together a team of prominent academic scientists and engineers, headed by theoretical physicist Abdus Salam.
The atrocities have been called acts of genocide.
The attack further damaged US-Pakistani relations with many in Pakistan calling for a more hardline stance against the United States.
The attack occurred after Friday prayers, with police confirming a suicide bomber as the perpetrator.
The attack occurred while Zeb was campaigning for the Bajaur Pasoon (uprising), underscoring the growing risks faced by political figures opposing the Pakistani establishment.
The attack on Dwarka led to questions being asked in India's parliament and subsequent post-war modernisation and expansion of the Indian Navy, with an increase in budget from Rs.
The attack on the Indian Parliament was by far the most dramatic attack carried out allegedly by Pakistani terrorists.
The attack was carried out on 25 September 2002, just few days after state elections were held in Jammu and Kashmir.
The attack was modeled on the Israeli Air Force's Operation Focus during the Six-Day War and intended to neutralize the Indian Air Force planes on the ground.
The attack was significant because it was carried out just two days after the declaration of the cease-fire between India and Pakistan.
The attacker, later found to be linked with Tehreek-e-Labaik Pakistan, was arrested from the spot.
The attacks are generally attributed to banned militant organizations of Deobandi or Ahl-e-Hadith (Salafi) backgrounds.
The attempt to seize the state was unsuccessful, and the second India-Pakistan War reached a stalemate.
The attempt was foiled by Inter Services Intelligence and all the plotters were arrested.
The attitudes towards women in Pakistani culture make the fight for educational equality more difficult.
The author of The China-Pakistan Axis: Asia's New Geopolitics concludes the book by connecting the bilateral relationship to broader themes in Chinese foreign policy.
The authorities in Pakistani Punjab waged a 'private war' by obstructing supplies of fuel and essential commodities to the State.
The autonomous Princely State of Bahawalpur adopted its own version of the act, namely the Bahawalpur Prevention of Corruption Act, of 1950.
The autonomous and disputed territories of Gilgit-Baltistan and Azad Kashmir have separate judicial systems from the main Pakistani system.
The average age of women for marriage increased from 16.9 years in 1951 to 22.5 years in 2005.
The average turnout of Karachi constituencies was 40.4% in 2018 elections comparing to 55% in 2013.
The base was regarded as top-secret, and even the high-ranking Pakistani public officials such as Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, were refused entry to the facility.
The basic qualifications required are an LL.B from any recognized university, and two years' experience as an advocate in the jurisdiction in question.
The batch of officers who attended the Civil Service Academy in 1973 is recognized as "1st Common".
The battle began 2 hours later and lasted 2 days.
The battle continued till after the singing of the Instrument of Surrender by the commander of Pakistani forces in East Pakistan, Lt Gen A.
The battle involved the air forces, armoured, infantry divisions and artillery brigades from both sides.
The battle plans, drafted by the Ministry of Defence and General Chaudhari, did not specify a role for the Indian Air Force in the order of battle.
The battle was a tremendous success for India and completely halted the Pakistani advance on the Punjab front.
The battled continued till 21 June, when Ladakh Scouts had to join the Indian side and the point was captured.
The bench headed by Chief Justice Saeeduzzaman Siddiqui and head Justice Bashir Jahangiri, Justice Nasir Aslam Zahid, Justice Abdur Rehman Khan and Justice Wajihuddin Ahmed as other members.
The bicameral federal legislature consists of the Senate (upper house) and National Assembly (lower house).
The biggest blunder made by Europe was the separation of Church and State.
The bilateral trade between each country reached to 630 million in 2008 and ~400 million in 2009.
The bill allowed for DNA and other scientific evidence to be used in prosecuting rape cases.
The bill moved by government established the commission as a permanent body with the task to ensure the implementation of women protection legislation for abuses against women.
The bill relating to the Federal Legislative List can be originated in either house.
The bill unanimously passed the Pakistani Senate in early March 2018.
The blast killed six people and injured 12 others.
The bloodless coup d'état was planned by Brown to the last detail under the code name "Datta Khel".
The book received positive reception in Pakistan.
The book was published with the revised title History of Indo Pak War 1965, published by Services Book Club, a part of the Pakistan military and printed by Oxford University Press, Karachi.
The brigade linked up on 24 November at Kargil with Indian troops advancing from Leh while their opponents eventually withdrew northwards toward Skardu.
The budget is preceded by an economic survey which outlines the broad direction of the budget and the economic performance of the country for the outgoing financial fiscal year.
The budget of the Election Commission is provided by the federal government.
The bureaucracy consists of 12 directorates that provide vital office and secretariat related duties to the Government of Pakistan.
The bureaucratic influence was strong in the western provinces of Pakistan while the eastern province retained a majority of the population.
The burqa is also not worn by rural peasant women who work in the fields.
The burqa is the traditional way of pardah in Pakistan.
The cabinet and its ministers are expected to lay down the policy guidelines, and the civil servants are responsible for implementing and enforcing it.
The cable said Indian security forces relied on torture for confessions and that the human right abuses are believed to be condoned by the Indian government.
The caliph was the Ottoman Emperor, who would be deprived of both offices following his nation's defeat in the First World War.
The candidate must retain the vote of confidence of the members of the parliament before being invited by the president to form the government.
The candidates are transferred to different sections for open source information where they serve for five years.
The candidates for the prime minister are members of the National Assembly who were chosen through direct elections by popular vote following campaigning on the party platforms.
The capital, Dhaka, was the scene of numerous massacres, including the Dhaka University massacre.
The case alleges that Khan and his wife, Bushra, received land worth billions from Malik Riaz in exchange for a deal that caused the national exchequer to lose Rs50 billion (£190 million).
The case emerged from the Panama Papers leak, which revealed significant overseas assets held by the Sharif family.
The case was described as the most publicized in Pakistan's history, as well as a "defining moment" for the country.
The case was later dropped when Attorney-General assured the Supreme Court justices that Imran Khan did not insubordinate the judiciary.
The ceasefire remained in effect until the start of the Indo-Pakistani war of 1971.
The ceasefire was criticised by many Pakistanis who, relying on fabricated official reports and the controlled Pakistani press, believed that the leadership had surrendered military gains.
The cell forces Federal Departments to acquire autonomous status, but the departments resist on multiple grounds.
The ceremony was attended by Richard Holbrooke, U.S. Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, and a number of foreign ambassadors, Afghan parliamentarians and senior officials.
The ceremony was attended by senior military officials and dignitaries from the regime.
The chairman of the Senate, under the constitution, is next in line to act as president should the office become vacant and until such time as a new president can be formally elected.
The challenge was based on an argument that rather than protections for transgender rights, the act could in effect decriminalise homosexuality because it distinguished between gender and sex.
The change prompted criticism and concern over its potential impact on judicial independence.
The chapter was prepared by a working group of 28 professional women headed by Syeda Abida Hussain, chairperson of the Jhang District council at that time.
The charge-sheet also listed some of Mr. Musharraf's contributions to the "war on terror".
The charge-sheet also listed some of Musharraf's contributions to the "war on terror".
The charges are contained in a notice that has to be signed by either the chairman or the speaker of the National Assembly through a two-thirds majority.
The charges were deemed "questionable" by some scholars, including Vali Nasr.
The chief election commissioner has to conduct elections to the office of the president in a special session.
The chief justice and judges of the Supreme Court may remain in office until age sixty-five: now 68 years and this is also another clause of seventeenth amendment.
The chief justice requested the military police, and subsequently struck down the Thirteenth Amendment, restoring the power of the president.
The citizens registered on the electoral rolls are only eligible to cast their votes.
The city of Srinagar was being patrolled by the National Conference volunteers with Hindus and Sikhs moving about freely among Muslims, an "incredible sight" to visiting journalists.
The civil awards of Pakistan includes an 'Order of Quaid-i-Azam'.
The civil bureaucracy closely collaborated with the military establishments of Pakistani Armed Forces in issues concerning the national security.
The civil disobedience movement turned into an armed liberation movement backed by India.
The civil servants are the permanent officials of the government, occupying a respected image in the civil society.
The civil service exams are competitive and provides equal opportunities to males and females, depending on their qualifications.
The civil service of Pakistan is the permanent bureaucracy of the Government of Pakistan.
The clear line of sight provided by the ridges was a serious problem for the Indian Army as the highway was the main logistical and supply route.
The cluster method often used for the coordination and funding of humanitarian responses to IDPs has been criticized many agencies have bypassed the UN cluster, such as OFDA and DfID.
The coalition government agreed on 7 August 2008 to impeach Musharraf.
The coalition of the Awami League, the Muslim League, and the Republican Party endorsed his presidency.
The code name Fair Play was intended to portray the coup as the benign intervention of an impartial referee to uphold respect for the rules and ensure free and fair elections.
The code name assigned to their role was Operation Safed Sagar.
The commission also prepares polling schemes, appoints polling personnel, assigns voters and arranges for the maintenance of law and order.
The commission had introduced the system of dyarchy to govern the provinces of British India, but these revisions met with harsh criticism and clamour by the Indian public.
The commission transacts its business by holding meetings.
The commission, compromising seven British Members of Parliament, headed under its Chairman Sir John Simon, met briefly with the Congress Party and Muslim League leaders.
The commissioned army ranks and insignia authorized in the Pakistan Army are modified and patterned on the British Army's officer ranks and insignia system.
The committee chooses from amongst serving or retired judges of the Supreme Court or the high courts or from amongst persons possessing the qualifications of judges of a high court.
The committee further discussed whether the National Database and Registration Authority (NADRA) maintained comprehensive records of dual nationals and their associated countries.
The committee was also embroiled in controversy for indicting Brigadier Surinder Singh of the Indian Army for his failure to report enemy intrusions in time, and for his subsequent conduct.
The committee's final report (also referred to as the "Subrahmanyam Report") led to a large-scale restructuring of Indian Intelligence.
The company itself ruled as the direct governing body from 1757 to 1858, though sovereignty was often shared with the Crown.
The complete list of presidents of Pakistan includes the persons sworn into the office of president following the proclamation of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan in 1956.
The complex consists of various low-rise buildings separated by lawns and fountains.
The composition of the National Assembly is specified in Article 51 of the Constitution of Pakistan.
The comprehensive training includes military education and development of physical efficiency skills.
The conclusive proof of age is Occification Test.
The condemnation was on account of Pakistan's close ties to Iran and its support for attacks on Israel.
The conflict became the first "live" war in South Asia and it was given such detailed media coverage that one effect was the drumming up of jingoistic feelings.
The conflict began following Pakistan's unsuccessful Operation Gibraltar, which was designed to infiltrate forces into Jammu and Kashmir to precipitate an insurgency against Indian rule.
The conflict between Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and President Ghulam Ishaq Khan arose in two areas regarding the issues of appointments.
The conflict over the status of Kashmir, (referred by India as Jammu and Kashmir), an issue since Independence, remains the major stumbling block in their dialogue.
The conflict soon turned into a news propaganda war, in which press briefings given by government officials of each nation produced conflicting claims and counterclaims.
The conflict started after the partition of India in 1947 as both India and Pakistan claimed the entirety of the former princely state of Jammu and Kashmir.
The conflict, a brief but bloody war, resulted in the independence of East Pakistan.
The conflicts significantly worsened public opinion in both nations, with each country perceiving the other as one of its least favored.
The conservative PML, led by Nurul Amin, raised religious and nationalist slogans all over the country.
The conservative government also adopted environmental policies after establishing the Pakistan Environmental Protection Agency.
The conservative newspaper, Nawa-i-Waqt, established in 1940 was the mouthpiece of the Muslim elites who were among the strongest supporters for an independent Pakistan.
The consignment included 5,000 blankets, 370 tents, 5 tons of plastic sheets and 12 tons of medicine.
The conspirator included Faiz Ahmad Faiz, a notable poet and intellectual, also connected with the Communist Party of Pakistan.
The constitution allowed the government-appointed officer and chairman of the Federal Public Service Commission of Pakistan to choose the name.
The constitution of 1956 made Pakistan an Islamic democratic country.
The constitution proclaimed an "Islamic Republic" in Pakistan with a parliamentary form of government.
The constitution prohibits the president from directly running the government.
The constitution provided for parliamentary form of government with a unicameral legislature.
The constitution reflected his personal views on politicians and the restriction on using religion in politics.
The constitution will be framed on the basis of the six points".
The constitutional amendment ended the Frontier Crimes Regulation (FCR), imposed under British rule in the 1850s.
The contacts resulted in the 1972 Nixon visit to China and the subsequent normalizing of relations between the United States and the People's Republic of China.
The continued application of local naturalisation allowed British Indian authorities to avoid adding English language requirements to the naturalisation process.
The continuing dispute over the status of Kashmir inflames opinions in both nations and makes friendly relations difficult.
The controversial murder of Murtaza Bhutto by Sindh Police and the pressure on MQM further weakened Benazir Bhutto.
The convening of the Constituent Assembly in Indian Kashmir in July 1950 proved contentious.
The convention elected Zulfikar Ali Bhutto as its first chairman when the latter was unable to challenge the leadership of the National Awami Party (NAP) from Wali Khan in 1966.
The convoy was stopped by hundreds of security personnel just miles from South Waziristan's border.
The coordination between the armed forces of Pakistan were ineffective and unsupported.
The coordination between the armed forces were ineffective and unsupported.
The council continued deliberations for four days.
The council, which had been expanded to 60 members as part of reforms enacted by Minto, recommended legislation to the Viceroy.
The country also entered the list of the world's top ten developing capital markets.
The country also faced a growing problem with the illegal narcotics trade, with Pakistan being among the world's largest heroin exporters and the drug's use rapidly increasing domestically.
The country became a republic when its first constitution was approved in 1956 but this was abrogated in 1958 after a military Coup d'état.
The country became embroiled in conflicts on two borders and Nawaz's long-standing relationships with the military establishment fell apart, so that by mid-1999 few approved of his policies.
The country continues to face challenging problems including terrorism, poverty, illiteracy, corruption and political instability.
The country entered a period of stagflation, and her government was dismissed by the conservative president, Ghulam Ishaq Khan.
The country has also unresolved territorial disputes with India, resulting in four conflicts.
The country has extensive trade relations with the European Union and with several countries globally.
The country has many political parties and many times in the past the country has been ruled by a coalition government.
The country is a federal parliamentary republic in which provincial governments enjoy a high degree of autonomy and residuary powers.
The country is also accused of systemic suppression of free speech and demonstrations against the government.
The country offers a multi-party system, with numerous parties.
The country shares land borders with India, Iran, Afghanistan, and China.
The country was born during the initial beginning of the extensive competition between the two world superpowers, the United States and Soviet Union.
The country was subjected to alternating military and democratic rule - but has managed to thrive on basic democratic norms.
The country's armed forces and the military leadership attempted to negotiate with Sharif and get him to step down.
The country's economy faced many challenges including energy shortages, hyperinflation, mild economic growth, high debt and a large budget deficit.
The country's first all-women university, named after Fatima Jinnah, was inaugurated on 6 August 1998.
The country's media was further liberalised, and with the banning of Indian media channels Pakistani music, art and cultural activities were promoted at the national level.
The country's three most powerful figures—Chief of Army Staff Aslam Beg, ISI chief Hamid Gul, and President Khan—all had contempt for her family.
The coup plotters were court martialed and arrested.
The coup was a watershed event in the Cold War and in the history of Pakistan.
The coup was received positively in Pakistan as relief from unstable governments and weak political leadership.
The couple did not officially acknowledge it, but their relationship was essentially over.
The couple had married in September 1951, and Benazir was their first child.
The couple had three children: a son, Bilawal, was born on 21 September 1988, while she was campaigning for that year's election.
The couple had two sons and four daughters.
The couple resided at South Court Mansion in Bombay, and frequently travelled across India and Europe.
The couple said they would marry, with him stating Jemima converted to Islam "through her own convictions" after studying the religion.
The couple separated prior to Ruttie's death in 1929, and subsequently Jinnah's sister Fatima looked after him and his child.
The couple spent most of their time convincing Jinnah to return to British India to unite the scattered Muslim League mass into one full force.
The couple's only child, daughter Dina, was born on 15 August 1919.
The couple, sole trustees of the Al-Qadir Trust, are accused of benefiting, including acquiring 458 kanals for Al-Qadir University in Jhelum.
The court also exercises revisional jurisdiction over the criminal courts, deciding Hudood cases.
The court also has appellate jurisdiction over penalties (hudud) arising out of Islamic law, although these decisions can be reviewed by the Shariat Appellate Bench of the Supreme Court.
The court also highlighted the illegal distribution of Rs 140 million from the state treasury to opposition politicians by Younas Habib, aimed at preventing a PPP victory.
The court also ordered National Accountability Bureau to file a reference against Nawaz and his family on corruption charges.
The court also ordered that his property and bank account in Pakistan be seized.
The court appoints its own staff and frames its own rules of procedure.
The court consists of a Chief Justice and sixteen other judges.
The court consists of eight Muslim judges, appointed by the President of Pakistan, on the advice of a judicial committee of the chief justices of the Supreme Court and the Federal Shariat Court.
The court found that a Bulgari jewellery set gifted by Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, valued at about Rs80 million, was acquired by Khan for Rs2.9 million.
The court of the district and sessions judge usually hears administrative applications against lower courts orders.
The court order described a meeting held on 7 May 2023, where Khan allegedly directed PTI leaders to prepare for potential unrest on May 9, should he be detained.
The court proceedings were widely accused of being a show trial.
The court reserved the right of Judicial Review and power of validity of any act or any action of the government, if challenged, in the light of State necessity.
The court was established in 1980 during the government of the President General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq.
The crackdown against MQM took a rapid turn when over hundred MQM Unit and Sector offices have been demolished and many MQM workers rounded up.
The crackdown on the PPP and the narrative of corruption against Zardari were key factors contributing to Sharif's overwhelming parliamentary majority.
The credibility of the United States was also badly damaged; the US itself refrained from pressuring Musharraf to take further action against Khan.
The cricket board has introduced new anti-corruption laws in order to bring accountability among cricketers and board officials.
The crime rate of extortion and kidnapping is falling down in the city.
The criminal courts were created under the Criminal Procedure Code 1898, during the British Raj, and the civil courts were established by the West Pakistan Civil Court Ordinance 1962.
The crises began in 2022 when the opposition joined hands and submitted a no-confidence motion against Imran Khan's government in the National Assembly.
The cultural affinity among our peoples is a huge asset.
The cultural logic of "Quran marriage" is not unique to the limited world of Muslims in South Asia.
The current Chief Election Commissioner of Pakistan is Sikandar Sultan Raja.
The current Chief Justice of the Federal Shariat Court is Justice Iqbal Hameed Ur Rehman.
The current National Assembly is the 16th National Assembly of Pakistan, which was formed in February 2024 after the 2024 Pakistani general election.
The current President is Asif Ali Zardari, who took charge on 10 March 2024, following his controversial victory in the 2024 election.
The current Speaker and Deputy Speaker are Ayaz Sadiq (PMLN) and Syed Ghulam Mustafa Shah (PPP) respectively.
The current and former Presidents of Pakistan, in keeping with the constitutional provision that the state religion is Islam, must be Muslim.
The current chief justice of Federal Shariat Court of Pakistan is Hameedur Rahman.
The current level of women’s representation in the national and provincial legislatures of Pakistan is amongst the top in the region.
The current office holder is Asif Ali Zardari, who took charge on 10 March 2024, following his victory in the 2023 elections.
The current office holder is Asif Ali Zardari, who took office on 10 March 2024, following his victory in the 2024 election.
The current wave of terrorism peaked during 2009.
The daring attempt turned out to be an "unmitigated disaster".
The date and time for the summoning of the National Assembly is immediately announced over radio and television.
The date of next General Election was fixed for 28 January 2008.
The day after the elections, Asad Umar, a leader from his party, announced that Khan had conceded defeat to PML (N).
The day has since been marked as Kargil Vijay Diwas (Kargil Victory Day) in India.
The day is revered in Bangladesh as the Language Movement Day.
The deal includes expediting a motion in the court to place Asia Noreen on Pakistan's no-fly list, known officially as the Exit Control List (ECL).
The death of Jinnah was announced in 1948, as a new cabinet was also re-established.
The death of Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq in August 1988 led to the appointment of Ghulam Ishaq Khan as President.
The death of Murtaza Bhutto in 1996, which allegedly involved Benazir's spouse, led to demonstrations in Sindh and the government lost control of the province.
The debriefing of Abdul Qadeer Khan severely damaged Musharraf's own public image and his political prestige in the country.
The decision of Pakistan to join the international struggle against terrorism has led to Russia-Pakistan relations being greatly improved.
The decision of the Court summarily removed all justices of the higher judiciary who were not part of it as of 2 November 2007.
The decision was unpopular among the local populace and triggered revolts organised by those who wanted the state to join Pakistan, leading to the Indo-Pakistani War of 1947–1948.
The decision, however, cost New Delhi dearly.
The decisions of the court are binding on the High Courts as well as subordinate judiciary.
The decisions of the court are binding on the high courts as well as the subordinate judiciary.
The decree had no effect on East Pakistan.
The deepening of military ties between Islamabad and Beijing had been worrisome to Western countries.
The defeated tribal forces were pursued as far as Baramulla and Uri and these towns, too, were recaptured.
The delegation urged Sharif to use his influence within the federal government to address the crisis in the province.
The demand took a violent turn on the Direct Action Day (16 August 1946) and inter-communal violence between Hindus and Muslims became endemic.
The democratic elections held in 2008 were the first to conclude a 5-year term in the nation's political history.
The department advised its officials that the instructions were binding on government as well as privately owned schools in the province.
The department told its officials to include their gender when they are being admitted to schools and give equal importance to transgender children during enrolment drives.
The deportations escalated after President Donald Trump suspended refugee admissions, leaving thousands in limbo.
The deposed judges challenged Nawaz's orders on procedural grounds by filing a petition at Quetta High Court on 26 November 1997.
The diary covers events such as his resignation from office, the assumption of power by Yahya Khan, the independence of Bangladesh, and the replacement of Yahya by Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
The directions and orders issued by the Supreme Court are finals despite questions are arises during the hearings in the High Court for the directions provided the Supreme court.
The directive called on every individual with an Afghan Citizen Card to leave.
The directive was issued after the Afghan Ministry of Refugee and Repatriation Affairs urged Pakistan to slow down the expulsion of Afghans.
The discussion was expected to be "fruitful" until the president left for West Pakistan on the evening of 25 March.
The dismissal of Bhutto caused spontaneous mass demonstrations and public anger against Khan, leading to major industrial and labour strikes in the country.
The displaced Pandits, many of whom continue to live in temporary refugee camps in Jammu and Delhi, are still unable to safely return to their homeland.
The dispute over Kashmir escalated into the first war between India and Pakistan.
The dissolution of the National Assembly was challenged in the Supreme Court of Pakistan and after hearing the case the Assembly was restored by the Supreme Court on 26 May 1993.
The distinction between the meaning of the terms citizenship and nationality is not always clear in the English language and differs by country.
The district where concern over human rights abuses was greatest was Bhimber where 32% of people expressed concern over human rights abuses.
The diversion of trade from East Pakistan to international markets was completed within a short period.
The division of power into separate branches of government is central to the republican idea of the separation of powers.
The document guides Pakistan's law, political culture, and system.
The document was aimed as an Islamic, democratic and federal constitution and government.
The documentary also focused on some underground organizations that work for basic human rights for the LGBTQ community.
The documentary was televised internationally, including on ABC2 in Australia, CBC in Canada and in various markets via Amazon Prime Video.
The double-soled design had existed for years, but the traditional Peshawari chappal became iconic as his preferred footwear.
The draft bill, to be called Pakistan Penal Code (Amendment Act) 2005, seeks to abolish the un-Islamic custom of such marriages.
The draft of this Constitution was introduced in the Assembly on 9 January 1956 and was passed by the Assembly on 29 February 1956.
The due process clause of the Constitution was partly based on the British Common law, as many founding fathers and legal experts of the country had followed the British legal tradition.
The duties of conducting elections are established in the Constitution of Pakistan.
The early 1930s saw a resurgence in Indian Muslim nationalism, which came to a head with the Pakistan Declaration.
The eastern command had laid down arms after losing only thirteen hundred men in battle.
The eastern contingent's economy was rapidly centralised by Suhrawardy's government.
The economic contraction in Pakistan was one of the most significant outcomes of the conflict.
The economically-socialist India entered into a formal alliance with the Soviet Union in August 1971.
The economy rapidly rebounded with a GDP growth of 2.32% in 1966, and 9.79% in 1969.
The economy suffered when Ayub Khan's administration entered in the war with India in 1965 which ended up in a compromise facilitated by the former Soviet Union.
The economy teetered on the brink of collapse, attributed to years of financial mismanagement, natural disasters, and political turmoil.
The effect of this reinterpretation limited the application of birthright citizenship only to children born to at least one Pakistani parent.
The effects of the pinpoint non-stop bombing by the Mirage-2000, by day and by night, became evident with almost immediate effect.
The election of the two officers is the first matter an incoming National Assembly deals with, as mandated by the constitution.
The election polls announced the victory of the Pakistan Muslim League (Q) and the liberals, MQM, with PML-Q retaining the majority in the state parliament and brutally defeating the PML-N.
The election process for Union Council members is organized and conducted by the Chief Election Commissioner.
The election to these reserved seats is held separately, and all members of the Union Councils in a Tehsil or Town are eligible to vote.
The election took place on 8 February 2024 across the country.
The election was held on an universal basis with approximately one-million voters.
The election was postponed in the NA-8 Bajaur constituency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa due to the killing of candidate Rehan Zeb Khan.
The election was won by the Awami League, having 167 seats out of 313, and Sheikh Mujibur Rahman was to be the first democratically elected Prime Minister of Pakistan.
The election, originally scheduled for 16 April was moved ahead to 6 April by the deputy speaker.
The elections are held on a non-party basis, and candidates are required to be residents of the union council area.
The elections are typically held every four years, although the exact term may vary depending on the province.
The elections for eleventh National Assembly was held on 3 February 1997.
The elections for tenth National Assembly was held on 6 October 1993.
The elections for twelfth National Assembly was held on 10 October 2002.
The elections marked the return of the Peoples Party to power.
The elections resulted in the victory of IJI, with Nawaz Sharif becoming prime minister.
The elections saw the PTI secure a majority of seats in the National Assembly with 116 seats won.
The elections were dominated[clarification needed] by the PPP, boosted by the death of Bhutto, and PML-N.
The elections were marred by terrorist attacks that killed hundreds and wounded more than 500 and widespread rigging of polls, the highest in the country's recorded history.
The elections were originally meant to be conducted in 2023 but were delayed due a pertaining legal issue between PTI and Election Commission of Pakistan.
The elections were widespreadly believed to have been rigged by the ruling party National Conference, allied with the Indian National Congress.
The electoral system was made indirect, and the 'Basic Democrats', for both wings were declared Electoral College for the purpose of electing the assemblies and the president.
The embassy described the event as its first gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender pride celebration.
The emergence of powerful civil society actors was unprecedented in Pakistani history.
The end and victory of the Kargil War is celebrated annually in India as Kargil Vijay Diwas.
The end of the Kargil conflict was followed by the 13th Indian General Elections to the Lok Sabha, which gave a decisive mandate to the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government.
The enhancement of women's status was stated as one of the 16 goals listed in the Pakistan 2010 Program (1997), a critical policy document.
The entrance to the complex is next to a private hospital.
The estimate grew to over 1000 by 21 May.
The ethnic Balochis saw this as a violation of their territorial rights.
The event was billed as the "People's Wedding", serving as a de facto political rally, with a subsequent party in a Lyari stadium being attended by 200,000 people.
The event was highly politicized in Pakistan, and outraged the country's leftists, and was seen as the seminal event that lead to warm diplomatic ties for several decades.
The events leading to it resulted in military intervention by chief of army staff General Zia-ul-Haq and Chairman Joint Chiefs Admiral Mohammad Shariff.
The evidence of this influence began to be revealed from 1937 onwards.
The evidence provided lacked proper verification, and there was no clear determination of the value of the Avenfield Apartments at the time of their acquisition.
The evidence suggests the election was rigged in Sharif's favour, undermining the legitimate victory of his opponent Yasmin Rashid.
The exact motive behind the assassination has never been fully revealed and much speculation surrounds it.
The exact sequence of the events and cause of death became points of political debate and controversy.
The exams include various compulsory papers.
The exercise concluded that Pakistan would prevail in the event of a conflict with India.
The existence of high level opposition was revealed in the Rawalpindi conspiracy, sponsored by Chief of General Staff Akbar Khan, and headed by communist leader Faiz Ahmad Faiz.
The fact remains that the Quetta Shura [Taliban] and the Haqqani Network operate from Pakistan with impunity ...
The failure of 1987 elections in Kashmir, and afterwards the arrest of Muhammad Yusuf, a.k.a.
The failure of the Congress leadership to disavow Hindu communalists worried Congress-supporting Muslims.
The far-left and the far-right disappeared from the political arena with the fall of global communism and the United States lessening its interests in Pakistan.
The far-right Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal mobilised in fierce opposition to Musharraf and Aziz and their support for the US intervention in Afghanistan.
The faulty planning of Operation Gibraltar was criticised by senior Pakistani officials and military experts, which ultimately led to the conflict.
The federal capital was relocated under the Ayub administration from the port city of Karachi to the new and carefully planned city of Islamabad in the mountains in 1965.
The federal government gave the reasoning behind this operation, known as "Operation Clean-up", as the government's attempt to end terrorism in Karachi and to seize unauthorized arms.
The federal government ousted the NAP provincial government in Balochistan for alleged secessionist activities, leading to the ban on the NAP.
The federal secretaries are the most senior, experienced, and capable officials in the country.
The fighting resulted in tens of thousands of casualties, both combatant and civilian.
The film depicts mass rape incidents in Kunan Poshpora and Shopian as facts and alleges that Indian Security Forces were responsible.
The film extols the principle of government of the people, by the people and for the people.
The film was banned in Pakistan by the Federal Government on 27 April 2016 for endangering democracy.
The film was dedicated to Nehru and Mountbatten and was given considerable support by Nehru's daughter, the Indian prime minister, Indira Gandhi.
The film was released on 8 April 2016 in cinemas across Pakistan.
The final draft of the Constitution was prepared in 1954.
The final objective in the Batalik frontier was the Jubar peak which was isolated from the neighbouring dominating structures.
The final stage involved major battles by Indian and Pakistani forces, with India recapturing most of the territories held by Pakistani forces.
The final step in this sequence was the nationalisation of all flour, rice, and cotton mills across the country.
The financial accountability introduced by Khyber Pakhtunkhwa under PTI's government entitled it to an extra Rs 1.5 billion ($150 million) from the federal government.
The firing left the Hindu residential locality near Bugti's residence badly hit.
The first Aurat March was held in Pakistan on 8 March 2018 (in the city of Karachi).
The first accounts showed the PTI winning overwhelmingly, achieving two thirds of the National and Punjab Provincial Assembly seats.
The first activists and cadres who gave the PPP a foothold and standing were from the different Maoist groups and other scattered left activists.
The first annual joint exercise between the Russian military and the Pakistan Army took place under the name "Friendship 2016".
The first batch was displayed in the Joint Services Day Parade on 23 March 1966.
The first case was subverting and suspending the constitution, and the second was a Federal Investigation Agency probe into the conspiracy to assassinate Bhutto.
The first clash is said to have occurred at Thorar (near Rawalakot) on 3–4 October 1947.
The first decade was marred with political unrest and instability, with frequent collapses of civilian democratic governments that eventually led to the 1958 military coup.
The first direct elections held in the country after independence were for the Provincial Assembly of the Punjab between 10 and 20 March, The elections were held for 197 seats.
The first five tests were conducted on 28 May and the sixth one on 30 May.
The first formal step to transform Pakistan into an ideological Islamic state was taken in March 1949 when Liaquat Ali Khan introduced the Objectives Resolution in the Constituent Assembly.
The first local government election was held in 1959 under the dictatorship of Ayub Khan.
The first oil cargo from Russia may arrive in Pakistan by the end of April 2023.
The first part contains quatrains in Persian, and the second part contains some poems and epigrams in Urdu.
The first phase also saw a total of 826 terrorists, 334 target killers, and 296 extortionists arrested.
The first political organization of Muhajirs, called All Pakistan Muhajir Student Organization (APMSO), was founded on 11 June 1978 by Altaf Hussain in Karachi University.
The first president was Iskander Ali Mirza who assumed office on 23 March 1956.
The first president was Iskander Ali Mirza who entered office on 23 March 1956.
The first prime minister, Liaquat Ali Khan, exercised central executive powers until his assassination in 1951.
The first purpose of those laws is to protect Islamic authority.
The first session of the National Assembly was held 20 March 1985.
The first session of the National Assembly was held on 17 March 2008.
The first session of the first Constituent Assembly of Pakistan was held on 10 August 1947 at Sindh Assembly Building in Karachi.
The first session of the first Constituent Assembly of Pakistan was held on 10 August 1947 at Sindh Assembly Building, in Karachi.
The first session of the third National Assembly was held on 8 June 1962 at Ayub Hall, Rawalpindi.
The first session of this council was held on 11 January 1982.
The first session was convened by the President on 30 November 1988.
The first session was held on 15 February 1997.
The first session was held on 15 October 1993.
The first session was held on 3 November 1990.
The first set of the Constitution had evolved the governor-general into the president of Pakistan whilst declaring the country an "Islamic republic".
The first six articles of the constitution outline the political system as a federal parliamentary republic system; as well as Islam as its state religion.
The first socialist and democratic convention attended by the leading 67 left-wing intellectuals who appointed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto as the first and founding chair of the Pakistan Peoples Party.
The first step in introducing media laws in the country was done by the then military ruler and President Ayub Khan who promulgated the Press and Publication Ordinance (PPO) in 1962.
The first television station began broadcasting from Lahore on 26 November 1964.
The first time that Pakistani troops participated in a UN peacekeeping mission was in Congo in 1960.
The first wave of attacks was carried out on the same day with a hundred soldiers landed into the city, followed by more after 12 hours.
The five provinces, capital territory of Pakistan are subdivided into 37 administrative "divisions".
The five-week war caused thousands of casualties on both sides.
The flight landed with only a few minutes of fuel to spare.
The following 2001–2002 India–Pakistan standoff raised concerns of a possible nuclear confrontation.
The following day, 4 Canadair Sabre of the PAF attempted to attack Indian positions in the region and were confronted by 4 IAF Folland Gnats.
The following day, Musharraf was placed under house arrest but was later transferred to police headquarters in Islamabad.
The following day, she was buried next to her father in the Bhutto family mausoleum, Garhi Khuda Bakhsh, her family graveyard near Larkana.
The following month, Nawaz blamed India for an inflexible approach towards resolving the Kashmir dispute.
The following summarises each nation's claims.
The force is charged with the security of Parliament House and the National Assembly.
The forces advanced through Khalra-Barki- Lahore road and reached Barki by 7 September.
The forces engaged heavily at the Battle of Burki.
The forces then had to focus on the eastern side.
The foremost task before the first Constituent Assembly was the framing the Constitution for the nation.
The form also highlights any irregularities that may have occurred during the voting process.
The form is similarly signed, thumbprinted, and then shared with the polling agents and election observers before finally being transmitted to the RO.
The form lists the names of the candidates, their affiliated political parties, and the total votes each candidate received in the constituency.
The former Quaid-i-Azam International Airport in Karachi, now called the Jinnah International Airport, is Pakistan's busiest.
The former title was reportedly given to Jinnah at first by Mian Ferozuddin Ahmed.
The former was appointed investment minister, chief of the Intelligence Bureau, director-general of the Federal Investigation Agency, and chair of the new Environment Protection Council.
The fort houses an Indian military unit and a high-security interrogation cell used both by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Indian Army.
The foundation also has subsidiaries that contribute to the civilian economy through various enterprises, including bakeries, security services and banking.
The foundation and ground base of the PML-N lies with the Pakistan Muslim League, which was founded in 1962 as an enriched conservative project derived from the defunct Muslim League.
The foundation stone for Pakistan Steel Mills was laid on 30 December 1973 by Bhutto.
The founder of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, was known to have a positive attitude towards women.
The founder of Sikhism was born in the modern-day Pakistani Punjab province, in the city of Nankana Sahib.
The four provincial governments of Pakistan administer the four provinces of Pakistan.
The fourteenth Amendment in the Constitution empowered a check on floor crossing of legislators.
The fronts solidified gradually along what later came to be known as the Line of Control.
The full name of the country is the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
The funds, recovered by the UK's National Crime Agency, were meant for the national treasury but were used to pay fines on Riaz for acquiring government land below market rates.
The funeral ceremony was marred by the absence of Iskander Mirza's relatives living in Pakistan.
The funeral was held in Peshawar, where Yahya was laid to rest at Circle Road Graveyard.
The game witnessed heightened passions and was one of the most viewed matches in the tournament.
The gender ratio among Parliamentary Secretaries is 14:36.
The general election held in 2013 saw the PML(N) almost achieve a supermajority.
The general election in 2008 resulted in a PPP victory.
The general elections held in 1977 resulted in an atmosphere of civil unrest instigated by the right-wing alliance, the Pakistan National Alliance.
The general elections held in 1985 restored the post, with Muhammad Junejo becoming the prime minister.
The general elections held in 1988 witnessed the victory of PPP in 1988 and appointed Senate chairman Ghulam Ishaq Khan to the presidency.
The general elections in 1985 were non-partisan general elections, but many technocrats belonged to the one party to another.
The general elections in 1988 resulted in the Pakistan Peoples Party's Benazir Bhutto becoming the first woman prime minister elected in a Muslim country.
The general elections in 1993 saw the PPP forming government after successfully seeking plurality in the Parliament.
The general elections in 2008 resulted in the PPP coming to power and supporting the movement to oust Pervez Musharraf.
The general elections of 1988 marked the emergence of the Pakistan People’s Party's as the single largest political party, with its election to 94 of 237 seats in the state parliament.
The general elections's results reflected the ugly political reality: the Pakistani electorate was deeply polarized along regional lines, particularly between East Pakistan and West Pakistan.
The general principle is that the total number of votes cast by members of Parliament equals the total number of votes cast by provincial legislators.
The general replied that most of India's frontline ammunition had been used up, and the Indian Army had suffered considerable tank losses.
The government abolished workers' contribution to the Social Security Fund, shifting the burden to employers.
The government allocated ₨73 billion of PSDP funds for the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, including the Lahore-Karachi Motorway.
The government also arrested scores of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf workers and closed the motorway leading from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
The government announced plans to restructure PIA, which sought to become more competitive by leasing newer and more efficient aircraft.
The government announced the Iraqi plan to further dismember the country, and Bhutto's successful diplomatic offensive against Iraq isolated Saddam internationally with global condemnation.
The government called in the army to enforce order.
The government consists of three branches: executive, legislative and judicial.
The government continues to restrict and censor some published material.
The government controls the Pakistan Television (PTV) and Radio Pakistan, the only free-to-air broadcast outlets with a national reach, and predictably coverage supports official viewpoints.
The government faced serious structural issues and financial problems; inflation and foreign debt stood at an all-time high, and unemployment in Pakistan had reached its highest point.
The government felt that it was losing millions of rupees by not 'regulating' the mushrooming cable TV business.
The government had arrested Rizvi in Lahore and charged him under Pakistan's Anti-Terrorism Act, 1997 (ATA), which further angered protesters, causing widespread unrest.
The government had told the IMF that it levied a 10% tax, which would generate revenue equal to 0.1% of GDP or ₨29 billion.
The government has been struggling to provide support to an area traditionally marginalized and remote and is also keen to downplay the scale of the crisis.
The government held 177 seats in the assembly.
The government is widely seen as having no control over the armed forces and the Inter-Services Intelligence.
The government maintained that Khan called off the march owing to a lack of political support.
The government may also set up administrative courts and tribunals for exercising exclusive jurisdiction in specific matters.
The government of India denied that torture was widespread and stated that some custodial crimes may have taken place but that "these are few and far between".
The government of India gave Pakistan time to void the accession and hold a plebiscite in Junagadh to pre-empt any violence in Gujarat.
The government outlawed the Awami League, which forced many of its members and sympathisers to seek refuge in Eastern India.
The government passed intel that identified the Iraqi nuclear program and the Osirak Nuclear Reactor at Osirak to Israel's Mossad.
The government planned to sell a 26% stake in the new PIA to a strategic partner.
The government refused them permission to play India in 1997, and ruled that women were forbidden from playing sports in public.
The government refused to accept the dead bodies of many officers, an issue that provoked outrage and protests in the Northern Areas.
The government sponsored schemes to address waterlogging and salinity issues.
The government stand was widely viewed as an attempt to suppress the culture of the eastern wing.
The government swiftly suppressed it by arresting as many as 294 members of the Praja Parishad including Prem Nath Dogra, its president.
The government was set to finish its term in 2023 but was ousted in a 2022 no confidence motion.
The government's Education Policy included fee remission and the provision of numerous scholarships for higher education to the children of low-paid employees.
The government's overtures to the Soviet Union were not favorably regarded by Pakistan's conservative middle classes, who regarded the USSR as an atheist and socialist ally of India.
The government-owned Pakistan Broadcasting Corporation (PBC) was formed on 14 August 1947, the day of Pakistani independence.
The ground in the East would be drier by mid November, which would make a rapid offensive easier.
The group Hizbul Mujahideen was created as the Kashmiri branch of Jamaat-i-Islami.
The group War Against Rape (WAR) has documented the severity of rape in Pakistan, and the police indifference to it.
The group argues that the law, which allows security forces to detain individuals for up to two years without presenting charges violates prisoners' human rights.
The group urged Islamabad to halt the removals and refrain from using refugees as 'leverage' against the Taliban.
The growing instigated violence against Pakistanis in East Pakistan forced President Yahya Khan to use force in order to maintain order there, which further escalated Bengali resistance (1970).
The gunfight began when security forces raided a house on the outskirts of the capital city of Srinagar housing militants.
The hacked website made derogatory remarks about Chief Justice Chaudhry.
The harassment of women has also been reported at PTI's gatherings.
The head of each province is a non-executive Governor appointed by the President.
The head of state is the president who is elected by the electoral college for a five-year term.
The head of the Tehsil government is "Tehsil Nazim" who is assisted by the tehsil Naib-Nazim.
The highest attainable rank for an officer who serves in the country's bureaucracy is BPS-22 grade.
The highest court of appeals in Azad Jammu and Kashmir is the Supreme Court of Azad Jammu and Kashmir.
The highest court of appeals in Pakistan's Gilgit Baltistan area is the Supreme Appellate Court Gilgit-Baltistan.
The highest ratio of women’s representation in the National Assembly of Pakistan was around 22 percent between 2008 and 2013.
The highest-level delegation to try to break the deadlock, it arrived in New Delhi in late March.
The historic 18th Constitutional Amendment was presented and passed by the National Assembly on 8 April 2010 and Senate on 15 April 2010 respectively.
The holding of UBL in government control turned out to be a move that ended in "disaster" for Bhutto's government.
The house convenes at the Parliament House, Red Zone, Islamabad.
The house initiates the process by levelling the charges against the president.
The house passed it on 12 March 1949, but it was met with criticism from his Law Minister Jogendra Nath Mandal who argued against it.
The house was only thinly guarded by a few police officers.
The human rights situation improved, with only one custodial death, and no custodial disappearances.
The human rights violations of the Ahmadiyya community has been systematic and state-sponsored.
The husband however, had not registered the divorce documents in the local council as required by law, rendering the divorce not legally binding.
The idea of civil service was established by the British Empire during the colonial period of the British Indian Empire.
The idea was so successful in both countries that the organisation found it "impossible to keep up".
The idea was that Indian and Pakistani children would make pen pals and write friendly letters to each other.
The immediate crackdown on smuggling, corruption, and trafficking won Ayub plenty of support from the commoners.
The impact of the war in the sporting arena was visible during the India-Pakistan clash in the 1999 Cricket World Cup, which coincided with the Kargil timeline.
The impasse was broken with Admiral Choudri resigning from the navy in protest as a result of having differences with the navy's plans of expansion and modernization.
The impeachment process may start in either of the two houses of the Parliament.
The inaugural session of the National Assembly was held on 16 November 2002 and Ch Amir Hussain and Sardar Muhammad Yaqoob were elected Speaker and Deputy Speaker respectively on 19 November 2002.
The incident drew attention to the close military ties between Pakistan and China, with analysts viewing Pakistan's subsequent visit to Beijing for a fighter jet deal as a possible diplomatic message.
The incident underscored ongoing tensions between Pakistan's judiciary and intelligence agencies, reflecting broader issues of governance and institutional integrity.
The income of Pakistani women in the labor force is generally lower than that of men, due in part to a lack of formal education.
The increasing Islamization has caused many Hindus to leave Hinduism and seek emancipation by converting to other faiths such as Buddhism and Christianity.
The incumbent governor-general, Iskander Mirza, became Pakistan's first president by 1956 Pakistani presidential election.
The incumbent president is eligible for re-election to that office, but cannot hold that office for more than two consecutive terms.
The incursion was centred around the town of Kargil, but also included the Batalik and Akhnoor sectors and artillery exchanges at the Siachen Glacier.
The independence of the Pakistani judiciary has changed over time.
The indigenous movie industry, based in Lahore and known as "Lollywood", produces roughly forty feature-length films a year.
The industrial concern GIDS has also emerged as a major manufacturer of drones and other defence equipment.
The infiltrators evicted from 5140 and Tololing had regrouped at point 4700 and 18 Grenadiers were tasked with removing them.
The infiltrators, apart from being equipped with small arms and grenade launchers, were also armed with mortars, artillery and anti-aircraft guns.
The influence of the Pakistani military in politics has always been a topic of debate.
The instigators seized control of the civilian government of the popularly elected Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on 12 October 1999.
The institutional de jure powers of the Supreme Court were restored to its original position after the passing of the Eighth Amendment in 1985.
The insurgency escalated in March 2025 when the BLA hijacked a train in a remote area of Balochistan, killing 26 people.
The insurgency was actively opposed in Jammu and Ladakh, where it revived long-held demands for autonomy from Kashmiri dominance and greater integration with India.
The insurgents took advantage of this and occupied vacant mountain peaks in the Kargil range overlooking the highway in Indian Kashmir that connects Srinagar and Leh.
The intensifying US-China Strategic Rivalry has put Pakistan in an extremely difficult situation to maintain ties with both of these states.
The international community considers The state of Jammu and Kashmir divided into three parts occupied by India, Pakistan and a part by China.
The interviews are conducted by a committee headed by the Chairman of the Federal Public Service Commission, the same as in the case of regular candidates.
The invading Indian forces outfought their Pakistani counterparts and halted their attack on the outskirts of Lahore, Pakistan's second-largest city.
The investigations backfired on Musharraf and public opinion turned against him.
The issue first arose in 1956, which ended with India regaining control over the disputed area.
The issue of [atomic] capability is an established fact.
The issue over the funding caused tensions in both countries.
The issue remains controversial and further investigations were conducted by the UK police.
The joint statement issued by Clinton and Sharif conveyed the need to respect the LOC and resume bilateral talks as the best forum to resolve all disputes.
The journal would play an important role in the Pakistan movement.
The journalist Christina Lamb believed that in being raised in a wealthy and aristocratic family, Bhutto was unable to appreciate the struggles of Pakistan's poorest.
The journey takes two to three months, during which time the ships are vulnerable to pirates, bad weather, political rivals and other risks.
The judges hold office for a period of 3 years, which may eventually be extended by the President.
The judges hold office for a period of three years, which may eventually be extended by the President.
The judges serve terms of three years, subject to extension by the President.
The judiciary enjoys full supremacy over the other organs of the state.
The judiciary includes the Supreme Court, provincial high courts, District & sessions Courts, Civil and Magistrate courts exercising civil and criminal jurisdiction.
The judiciary of Pakistan is the national system of courts that maintains the law and order in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
The judiciary's function is to interpret the Constitution and federal laws and regulations.
The justification was just as much a desire to counter the Indian media power, as it was a wish to set the media "free" with the rights that electronic media had in liberal, open societies.
The killing of Naqeebullah Mehsud has brought forth accusations that Pashtuns are racially profiled.
The lack of any political advantages on either side for pursuing better relations has resulted in a period of "minimalist engagement" by both countries.
The lack of democracy and feudal practices of Pakistan also contribute to the gender gap in the educational system.
The lack of enthusiasm regarding the outcome was highlighted by the pre-emptive publication of Ayub Khan's inaugural plans by Dawn, several days before the official vote count was confirmed.
The land ceiling was fixed at 150 acres (0.61 km2) of irrigated land and 300 acres (1.2 km2) of non-irrigated land.
The large size of the Indian diaspora and Pakistani diaspora in many different countries throughout the world has created strong diasporic relations.
The largest PTI claims over a constituency have occurred over NA-130 Lahore-XIV, which PTI claims that jailed PTI senior Yasmin Rashid won against 3-time former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif.
The largest protests saw more than a half million people waving Pakistani flags and crying for freedom at a rally on 18 August, according to Time magazine.
The largest rift in relations would be with the Pakistan Armed Forces, which PTI’s relations would worsen with in 2022.
The latter body, presided over by the Prime Minister of Pakistan, exercises paramount authority over the AJK Legislative Assembly, which cannot challenge decisions of the council.
The latter part of Iqbal's life was concentrated on political activity.
The latter was born in Isfahan, Persia (now Iran) to a wealthy Persian merchant family of partial Kurdish descent.
The law allows the civil service of the federation and provinces to be regulated as per rules notified under these enactments.
The law does not permit foreigners to obtain a 'Declaration' to run a news agency or any media station.
The law empowered the authorities to confiscate newspapers, close down news providers, and arrest journalists.
The law experts, constitutional analysts, and country's reputed clergymen worked on formulating a constitution that they hoped would represent the will and desire of people.
The law has been widely hailed by Pakistani transgender activists as progressive in its language and scope.
The law is applicable to the whole of Pakistan.
The law warrants separate Camera trial of the juvenile providing all privileges to the juvenile accused as per the Act of 2018.
The laws are, however, detrimental to democracy reform, and represent a potential threat to the future of Pakistan and democracy.
The lead in this act of ethnic cleansing was initially taken by the Jammu & Kashmir Liberation Front and the Hizbul Mujahideen.
The leader of PML-N, Nawaz Sharif, won a third term as Prime Minister of Pakistan, the first time this had happened in the history of the country.
The leader of the rebel group was Makhdoom Faisal Saleh Hayat.
The lectures had been delivered at Madras, Hyderabad and Aligarh.
The left oriented PPP and conservative PML, won a majority of the seats and formed a coalition government; the liberal alliance had faded.
The left-wing alliance, led by Benazir Bhutto, was brutalised by Zia who took aggressive measures against the movement.
The left-wing government of Sirimavo Bandaranaike following a neutral non-aligned foreign policy.
The leftist ideas of the government and Bhutto's policy towards the Soviet Union was seen by the United States as sympathetic.
The legacy of Kargil war still continues to be debated on Pakistan's news channels and television political correspondents, which Musharraf repeatedly appeared to justify.
The legacy of Musharraf's era serves as a cautionary tale for future leaders in Pakistan.
The legislation makes way for provisions that add transparency to the various functions and departments of the government.
The letter of credit of Pakistan was rejected by International Monetary Fund and World Bank and a massive capital flight was seen from the country to Eastern Europe.
The liberalisation of the electronic media in 2002 was coupled to a bulk of regulations.
The line that separates India from China in this region is known as the "Line of Actual Control".
The list of foreign friends of Bangladesh has since been extended to 568 people.
The literacy rate for urban women is more than five times the rate for rural women.
The literacy rate is still lower for women compared to men: the literacy rate is 45.8% for females, while for males it is 69.5% (aged 15 or older, data from 2015).
The local BUNYAD Foundation of Lahore and the UN's work via the Dakar Framework of Action for EFA are also helping with this issue.
The local organisation of Pandits in Kashmir, Kashmir Pandit Sangharsh Samiti claimed that 399 Kashmiri Pandits were killed by insurgents.
The long-lived socio-cultural belief that women play a reproductive role within the confines of the home leads to the belief that educating women holds no value.
The long-standing ties between the two countries have been mutually beneficial.
The losing candidates were declared winners.
The loss of East Pakistan shattered the prestige of the Pakistani military.
The loss of armoured vehicles was similarly imbalanced and this finally represented a defeat for Pakistan.
The loss rate had begun to even out, and it has been estimated that another three weeks' fighting would have seen the Pakistani losses rising to 33 percent and India's losses totalling 15 percent.
The low female literacy rate is a large obstacle in women taking part in the workforce.
The lowest was in the district of Sudanhoti where concern over human rights abuses was a mere 5%.
The main Indian objective on the eastern front was to capture Dacca, and on the western front to contain Pakistani forces.
The main demand of the people of Gilgit-Baltistan is constitutional status for the region as a fifth province of Pakistan.
The main feature of Ayub Khan's foreign policy was prioritizing relations with the United States and Europe.
The main objective as stated in the Sixth Plan was "to adopt an integrated approach to improve women's status".
The main objective of the ISI is to covertly collect & analyze intelligence overseas that is deemed relevant to Pakistan's national security and interests.
The main phase of Operation Searchlight ended with the fall of the last major town in Bengali hands in mid-May.
The main provision of the Sixth Amendment extended the term of the Chief Justices of the Supreme Court and the High Courts beyond the age of retirement.
The main task of the exercises was to improve the ways of interaction when performing a wide range of tasks.
The maintenance of national security, which was the principal function of these agencies, resulted in the consolidation of the Ayub regime.
The major focus of the visit was to improve bilateral relations with particular emphasis on ways and means to enhance economic cooperation between the two countries.
The major function of the General Council Meeting (or Central Working Committee) is to elect presidents and secretaries, while it is also responsible for promoting PML-N activities.
The major success story was Operation Jackpot, in which naval commandos mined and blew up berthed ships in Chittagong, Mongla, Narayanganj and Chandpur on 15 August 1971.
The majority of East Pakistani ulama had either remained neutral or supported the Pakistani state, since they felt that the breakup of Pakistan would be detrimental for Islam.
The majority of member states in the United Nations recognized Bangladesh as a sovereign nation in 1972.
The majority of militant organisations are composed of foreign mercenaries, mostly from the Pakistani Punjab.
The majority of victims of violence have no legal recourse.
The majority of women in prison had been charged under the Hudood Ordinance.
The manipulation of the 1990 election can be traced back to the pre-1988 electoral landscape, with the formation of the Islami Jamhoori Ittehad(IJI), a coalition of nine parties.
The march to the Capital as it was called was an important rally for Khan's attempt to undo his removal from office.
The march was endorsed by the Lady Health Workers Association, and included representatives from multiple women's-rights organizations.
The marriage ceremony took place in the Clifton Palace Gardens at Karachi in December 1987.
The martial law enforced by President General Zia introduced the strict form of conservatism which promoted the nationalistic, religious and anti-sectarianist ideologies.
The martial law imposed in 1958 eventually outlawed all political parties in the country.
The martial law would be for the shortest possible duration until the new elections....
The martial regime ended in 1988 with the death of President Zia and many other key military administrators in the government in a plane crash.
The massacres would only end with the Indian Army recapturing Rajouri in April 1948.
The massive demonstration and public protests eventually led Ayub Khan to resign from the presidency on 25 March 1969 by inviting his army commander General Yahya Khan to take-over the government.
The match was played on 4 October in 1987.
The maternal mortality rate was also high, as only 20 percent of women were assisted by a trained provider during delivery.
The media became an important actor in the process that led to fall of Musharraf and his regime.
The media in Pakistan dates back to pre-partition years of British India, where a number of newspapers were established to promote a communalistic or partition agenda.
The media will also be restricted from publishing or publicizing the names or any information that would reveal the identity of a victim, except when publishing court judgements.
The meeting came months after Russia had lifted an embargo on supplying weapons and military hardware to Pakistan, starting with Mil Mi-24 helicopters.
The meeting focused on Afghanistan's humanitarian crisis.
The meeting was ended by Bhutto as he had replied: "For my country's sake, for the sake of people of Pakistan, I did not succumb to that black-mailing and threats".
The meeting was ended by Bhutto as he had replied: For my country's sake, for the sake of the people of Pakistan, I did not succumb to that blackmailing and threats.
The meetings culminated into the Pakistan-United States trade deal.
The membership of the Senate, which was originally 45, was raised to 63 in 1977 and to 87 in 1985.
The memorial, located about 5 km from the city centre across the Tiger Hill, commemorates the martyrs of the Kargil War.
The men met over six days beginning on 5 April.
The message was translated into Bengali by Manjula Anwar.
The middle-class and the upper-middle class were more apprehensive.
The militancy also resulted in the exodus of Kashmiri Hindus from the predominantly Muslim Kashmir Valley in the early 1990s.
The militancy continued through the 1990s and early 2000s—by which time it was being driven largely by foreign militants and spread to parts of the adjoining Jammu region—but declined thereafter.
The militants were killed by the Indian army or forced to withdraw in skirmishes which continued even after the announcement of withdrawal by Pakistan.
The militants were not willing to accept orders from Sharif but the NLI soldiers withdrew.
The militarisation of the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission was initiated on 20 January 1972 and, in its initial years, was implemented by Pakistan Army's Chief of Army Staff General Tikka Khan.
The military buildup was initiated by India responding to a 2001 Indian Parliament attack and the 2001 Jammu and Kashmir legislative assembly attack.
The military court proceedings were widely accused of being a show trial.
The military forced the courts to convict Sharif and sentence him to life imprisonment in 2000.
The military forces in the country were mobilised at war-readiness on the Indian border.
The military formed an interim government and called a general election for October 1993.
The military government and President Yahya himself made no efforts to frame a constitution, aside from issuing the extrajudicial order in 1970.
The military government barred them from leaving Pakistan in time despite the best efforts of Ardeshir Zahedi, Iran's foreign minister, and President Iskander Mirza's friends in Pakistan and Iran.
The military government then appointed General Rahimuddin Khan as Martial Law Administrator over the Balochistan Province.
The military government-initiated talks with the International Monetary Fund after foreign reserves fell to $160 million.
The military leadership is believed to have felt let down by the prime minister's decision to withdraw the remaining fighters.
The military placed Nawaz on trial for "kidnapping, attempted murder, hijacking and terrorism and corruption".
The military placed Sharif under house arrest, but in a last-ditch effort Sharif privately ordered Karachi air traffic controllers to redirect Musharraf's flight to India.
The military police initiated massive arrests of the PML workers and party leaders, who were held in Sindh and Punjab police prisons.
The military relied on donations from the United States for major weapons procurements.
The military swiftly responded, and Musharraf successfully landed in Karachi.
The military thought it could still control the media and harness it if it strayed from what the regime believed was in the national interest - and in accordance with its own political agenda.
The military was called out and a 72-hour curfew imposed.
The military's ill-founded belief that their "martial race" of soldiers could defeat "Hindu India" in the conflict was criticised by several Pakistani writers.
The morale of Pakistan forces after the withdrawal declined as many units of the Northern Light Infantry suffered heavy casualties.
The most common female dress is the shalwar kameez with a shawl called dupatta.
The most common types of corruption were billing related.
The most contentious of the disputes was, and continues to be, that over the princely state of Kashmir.
The most recent estimate has Pakistan occupying 1,600 square miles of Indian territory (1,300 of it desert).
The mountainous Ladakh district (wazarat) in the east had a significant Buddhist presence with a Muslim majority in Baltistan.
The move brought Abdullah closer to Jawaharlal Nehru, the rising leader of the Congress party.
The move has been dubbed a cover-up to hide the real mechanics of power, which allegedly are under the direct control of the Pakistani federal government.
The movement came under criticism from the Muslim Conference, who charged that Abdullah was doing it to boost his own popularity, waning because of his pro-India stance.
The movement reached its climax in 1952, when on 21 February, the police fired on protesting students and civilians, causing several deaths.
The movement was created for the same reason as the insurgency and began after the disputed election of 1987.
The movie was directed by Hammad Rizvi, and produced by GrayScale.
The mufti who conducted the marriage later testified that his nikah was performed twice.
The mujahideen fighters were trained by Pakistan's military, American CIA and other western intelligence agencies who continued operations in the area after the war officially ended.
The myth of 'victory' was created after the war had ended, to counter Indian claims of victory on the one hand and to shield the Ayub regime and the army from criticism on the other.
The name is badged on the right pocket and the left pocket displays achievement badges by Pakistan Army.
The names of the soldiers who lost their lives in the War are inscribed on the Memorial Wall.
The nascent Bangladesh Navy (comprising officers and sailors who defected from the Pakistani Navy) aided the Indians in the marine warfare, carrying out attacks, most notably Operation Jackpot.
The national cabinet, led by the Prime Minister of Pakistan has executive power and the president is the head of state elected by the electoral college.
The national income of Pakistan increased by 15%, and industrial production rose by as much as 20% in four years.
The nationalisation programme badly affected the reputation of the Pakistan Peoples Party.
The nationalist Awami League (AL) secured the mandate of East Pakistan but failed to perform in any four provinces of Pakistan.
The nature and degree of women's subordination vary across classes, regions, and the rural/urban divide.
The nature of the India-Pakistan conflict took a more sinister turn when the United States received intelligence that Pakistani nuclear warheads were being moved towards the border.
The naval attack involving the Soviet-built Osa-class missile boats sank the Pakistan Navy's destroyer PNS Khaibar and minesweeper PNS Muhafiz while PNS Shah Jahan was also badly damaged.
The negotiations were stalled when Bhutto took the lengthy tour of Middle East countries and the PNA termed his tour as dilatory tactics.
The new Assembly came into power with an overwhelming majority.
The new administration did not satisfy CMLA Ayub Khan who had more control in the administration than President Mirza.
The new bill also ensures that sex workers are also included in the law's protection.
The new bus service between Srinagar and Muzaffarabad has also helped bring the two sides closer.
The new coalition put forth PPP member Yousuf Raza Gilani as prime minister.
The new constitution respected Islam, but did not declare Islam as the state religion and was viewed as a liberal constitution.
The new constitution was, however, followed by a period of political turmoil in Pakistan which further agitated the populace and factions within the military.
The new laws introduced harsher punishments for the perpetrators of such crimes.
The new ministry met amid a backdrop of rioting, especially in Calcutta.
The new relationship between the United States and Pakistan is not just about September 11,' Powell said.
The newly constituted Electoral College unanimously elected Mirza as the interim president upon the promulgation of the first set of the Constitution on 23 March 1956.
The news of Sharif's dismissal made headlines all over the world and under pressure from US President Bill Clinton and King Fahd of Saudi Arabia Musharraf agreed to spare Sharif's life.
The newspaper Dawn, founded by Muhammad Ali Jinnah and first published in 1941, was dedicated to promoting for an independent Pakistan.
The next Indian national budget included major increases in military spending.
The next candidate in line was Akbar's younger brother, Iftikhar Khan.
The next day, Musharraf along with PQ Mehdi and Mirza, reported to PMA and they were selected for their respective training in their arms of commission.
The next day, Pakistan retaliated with its air force and attacked Indian forces and air bases in both Kashmir and Punjab.
The next day, Pakistani authorities claimed they were unable to capture Khadir.
The next day, he was convicted and sentenced to 14 years in the Toshakhana case for unlawfully selling state gifts received by him and his wife, Bushra, as prime minister.
The next morning, the Prime minister relieved Admiral Bokhari of his duties.
The next most important objective was to capture Point 4812, which was an important dominating position of Pakistani forces.
The next summer again saw large-scale protests with the immediate trigger being a fake encounter staged by the military in Machil, Kupwara.
The next year the Kargil war, by Pakistan-backed Kashmiri militants, threatened to escalate to a full-scale war and increased fears of a nuclear war in South Asia.
The no-confidence motion has the signatures of more than 20 members.
The nominal elected chief executive, the Prime Minister, was frequently sacked by the establishment, acting through the President.
The nomination comes directly from the Judicial Commission chaired by the Chief Justice who prepares the nomination summary as President confirms their appointments.
The noncommissioned officers (or enlists) wear respective regimental color chevrons on the right sleeve.
The norm was established that if the president was from West Pakistan, the Speaker was to be from East Pakistan and vice versa.
The notice is sent up to the president, and 14 days later it is taken up for consideration.
The notice was discharged after he told the Supreme Court that his criticism targeted lower-court judicial officers serving as returning officers during the elections.
The nuclear weapons program was set up loosely based on the Manhattan Project of the 1940s under the administrative control of Bhutto.
The number of bank branches increased by 75% from December 1971 to November 1976, rising from 3,295 to 5,727.
The number of infiltrators, including those providing logistical backup, has been put at approximately 5,000 at the height of the conflict.
The number of reserved seats in the National Assembly was increased from 20 to 60.
The oath of allegiance administered to successful applicants required them to swear loyal service to the company, as well as allegiance to the British monarch.
The offensive brought peace in those areas and the rest of the country.
The office of Mohtasib was established in many early Muslim states to ensure that no wrongs were done to citizens.
The office of president was created upon the proclamation of Islamic Republic on 23 March 1956.
The official casualty figures of India were given to be 527 dead and 1,363 wounded.
The official number of the surrendered military personnel was soon released by the Government of Pakistan after the war was over.
The official residence, known as Prime Minister Enclave, is near the Prime Minister's Office.
The official stance of the Indian Army was that, according to its own investigation, 97% of the reports about human rights abuses have been found to be "fake or motivated".
The official war ended in just under nine months on 16 December 1971, with Pakistan losing its eastern part, which became Bangladesh.
The only Hindu residential hall—Jagannath Hall—was destroyed by the Pakistani armed forces, and an estimated 600 to 700 of its residents were murdered.
The opening of the media market led to the mushrooming of satellite channels in Pakistan.
The operation aimed to arm Islamic fundamentalists and instigate attacks across Afghanistan.
The operation also began the Bangladesh genocide.
The operation didn't get underway until after the Indian Army had captured Haji Pir pass in Kashmir.
The operation failed, leading to the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965.
The operation launched a new era of bloodshed in Karachi and many party leaders from MQM were arrested.
The operation left thousands of people dead.
The operation resulted in major unrest as the PMLN government tried to nab the criminal elements ravaging the city of Karachi.
The operation was carefully analysed and at 00:00 hrs (12:00 am), the SSG Division accompanied by Army Rangers stormed the Embassy.
The operation was highly risky, and a wrong step could have started a war between the two countries.
The operation was launched shortly after the independence of Pakistan.
The operation was successful and Pakistan experienced sharp decline in terrorism since the launch of the operation.
The operation, under General Tikka Khan, soon took shape in a five-year conflict with the Baloch separatists.
The opposition also claimed it had the support from a group of PTI MNAs led by ex-secretary general of the PTI, Jahangir Tareen.
The opposition called the rejection "unconstitutional" and petitioned the Supreme Court.
The opposition charged the government with rigging the elections to the National Assembly and thereafter boycotted the Provincial Assemblies elections.
The order of precedence change from Navy–Army–Air Force to Army–Navy-Air Force, with army being the most senior service branch in the structure of the Pakistani military.
The order revealed that Khan had instructed PTI leaders to create chaos and exert pressure for his release if arrested, as testified by two prosecution witnesses.
The ordinance had earlier been kept in force by invoking the president's power to re-issue it every four months.
The ordinance provides a ready and convenient tool in the hands of fundamentalists and the government to incriminate Ahmadis on flimsy grounds and petty excuses.
The ordinance was a green signal for anti-Ahmadiyya elements to open the floodgates of tyranny with the help of the State.
The organisation has also given aid to Hizbul Mujahideen.
The original plan for Operation Searchlight envisioned taking control of the major cities on 26 March 1971 and then eliminating all opposition, political or military within one month.
The original target date for the transfer of power to the new dominions was June 1948.
The origins of India's nuclear program date back to 1944, when it started a nuclear program soon after obtaining independence.
The other agencies was pushed into severe crisis and had to seek financial support from the government.
The other faction, the much smaller JUI-S, led by Samiul Haq, is of regional significance in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
The other four men nominated by the League were Ibrahim Ismail Chundrigar, Ghazanfar Ali Khan, Abdur Rab Nishtar, and Jogendra Nath Mandal.
The other judge was prevented from sitting in the Court from November because of an illness pronounced by a government‐appointed medical board.
The other major initiative is the Prime Minister's program of lady health workers (LHWs).
The others were Egypt, Libya, Saudi Arabia and Malaysia.
The overarching intelligence coordination body was given assent by the Prime Minister of Pakistan in November 2020.
The overwhelming majority of Pakistan's arms imports are from China, and the country makes up the majority of China's arms exports.
The package was opposed by Pakistani Kashmiri politicians who claimed that the integration of Gilgit-Baltistan into Pakistan would undermine their case for the independence of Kashmir from India.
The pact was an effort to improve relations and reduce tension between India and Pakistan, and to protect the religious minorities on both sides of the border.
The pact was an effort to improve relations and reduce tension between India and Pakistan, and to protect the religious minorities on both sides of the borders.
The parliament has passed the Juvenile Justice System Act 2018.
The parliament's both houses convene at the Parliament House within the governmental Red Zone of Islamabad, the federal capital.
The parliamentary system came to an end in 1958, following the imposition of martial law.
The part lost the general election in 1990, which was said and later proved in court inquiries to be heavily rigged in favor of conservative alliance led by Fida Mohammad.
The participants demanded that the government eliminate militancy and ensure sustainable peace.
The partition of British India split the former British province of Punjab and Bengal between the Dominion of India and the Dominion of Pakistan.
The partition resulted in large-scale population movements across the new borders separating Pakistan and India.
The party also appointed governors: Chaudhry Sarwar as Governor of Punjab, Imran Ismail as Governor of Sindh, and Shah Farman as Governor of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
The party also became the largest opposition party in Sindh and received significant representation in Balochistan.
The party asserted its role as opposition to the Pakistan People’s Party.
The party assumed the control what remained of Pakistan— the nation was completely isolated, angered, and demoralized.
The party became an integral part of the nine-party alliance, PNA, against the PPP, and campaigned against the PPP in the 1977 general elections.
The party conducted another intra-party election on 3 March 2024.
The party dominated the two-party system facing the rival Pakistan Muslim League (N) on a conservative and status quo platform.
The party espouses a nonviolent approach to tackling extremism.
The party failed to field candidates in 19 out of Interior Sindh's 40 constituencies.
The party follows a free market capitalist and economically liberalist approach.
The party formed a coalition government with the PPP in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, and in Sindh province and Islamabad for central government after the Pakistani parliamentary elections in 1988.
The party founder, Imran Khan, burned his utility bills to encourage participants to join his protest against rising electricity prices.
The party had always been a top-down organizational structure, the removal of which led many to believe that the party had effectively dissolved and ceased to exist.
The party had supported the presidency of Zia-ul-Haq and won his support to appoint Mohammad Khan Junejo to the office of Prime Minister.
The party has also accused Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf chairman Imran Khan and of being complicit in the Taliban attacks.
The party has been rivals with the PML-N for most of its existence but has joined hands with the PML-N against the PTI.
The party has been widely seen as a dynastic political family party as it has seen its leadership pass down through the Bhutto family, which has seen a devoted cult of personality.
The party has dense support among the Pashtun population in the country.
The party has kept its influence over Pakistan's federal government as a key coalition partner since the late 1980s (1988–1990, 1990–1992, 2002–2007, 2008–2013).
The party has won majority in the local government election of Karachi and Hyderabad and brought its mayor in Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (KMC) and Hyderabad Municipal Corporation.
The party is led by Altaf Hussain under whose supervision, members of the Rabita Committee (also known as Central Coordination Committee) formulate the party's political program.
The party is led by Gohar Ali Khan since late 2023.
The party is not the original Muslim League, but is accepted as its continuing legal successor.
The party is registered with the Election Commission of Pakistan as simply "Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam", but is still commonly referred "Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (F)".
The party led a three-week sit-in protest that paralyzed the entire country including Pakistan's capital, Islamabad, activists attacked police and damaged property.
The party organized and led the 2021 Pakistani protests.
The party published its ideology in newspapers such as Nusrat, Fatah, and Mussawat.
The party under Benazir Bhutto faced the issues relating to the economic recession, war in Afghanistan on the western front, and identity politics in Karachi, Sindh.
The party was founded as an offshoot of the Pakistan Muslim League, but is now its largest faction.
The party was founded by Abdul Wali Khan in 1986 and its current president is Aimal Wali Khan, great-grandson of Bacha Khan, with Mian Iftikhar Hussain serving as the secretary-general.
The party was founded by Khadim Hussain Rizvi in August 2015, who also became its first ameer.
The party was involved in laying siege and paralyzing the capital of Pakistan, Islamabad, to stop the Government from functioning.
The party won 167 of the 169 seats allotted to East Pakistan, and thus a majority of the 313 seats in the National Assembly.
The party's Karachi-based organizational operations are held under its Karachi Tanzeemi Committee.
The party's leaders residing in Pakistan, including Farooq Sattar, were arrested, and most elected parliamentarians in the MQM disassociated themselves from Altaf Hussain due to his speech.
The party's reputation was damaged in this period following the arrest of former Federal Minister and senior party leader Azam Khan Hoti.
The party's strongly hierarchical order and personalist leadership style led to some critics labelling the MQM as fascist.
The party's use of extra-legal activities in conflicts with political opponents have led it to be accused of terrorism.
The passing of the Bill and the consequent signing of it into law by President General Pervez Musharraf invoked protests from hardline Islamist leaders and organizations.
The people of East Bengal demanded that their language be given federal status alongside Urdu and English.
The people of Kashmir do not fear death because they are Muslims.
The people of Pakistan had rejected bigotry and prejudice in electing a woman Prime Minister.
The perceived Indian overstay revived Bangladeshi anxieties of Hindu control.
The percentage of people agreeing with this statement was higher among rurallites (67%) as compared to the urbanites (53%).
The performance of the Pakistani Air Force was particularly praised.
The period following the coup saw the "Islamisation of Pakistan" and Pakistan's involvement with the Afghan mujahideen (funded by the US and Saudi Arabia) during their war against the Soviet Union.
The perpetrator may be punished by having drops of acid placed in their eyes.
The perpetrators were Lashkar-e-Taiba (Let) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorists.
The plan acquires its greatest specificity, and lays out the largest number of projects and plans for their facilitation, in agriculture.
The plan failed after soldiers in Karachi surrounded the airport control tower.
The plan involved advancing from Bahawalnagar towards Bhatinda and Ludhiana.
The plan was accidentally revealed to an Indian officer, Major O. S. Kalkat serving with the Bannu Brigade.
The plan was for the infiltrators to mingle with the local populace and incite them to rebellion.
The plane landed at Karachi that afternoon, to be met by Jinnah's limousine, and an ambulance into which Jinnah's stretcher was placed.
The plane was hijacked on 24 December 1999 approximately one hour after takeoff and was taken to Amritsar airport and then to Lahore in Pakistan.
The planned protest's motive was to pressure the Government of Pakistan to deport the French ambassador in Pakistan over the controversy of cartoons of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.
The plight of the refugees outraged Hindus and Indian nationalists, and the refugee population drained the resources of Indian states, which were unable to absorb them.
The poems emphasise the spirit and self from a religious perspective.
The poems he wrote up to 1905—the year he left for England—reflect patriotism and the imagery of nature, including the Urdu language patriotic "Saare Jahan se Accha".
The poetry and philosophy of Rumi strongly influenced Iqbal.
The police decision to lift his confinement was very likely in response to an army command.
The police immediately shot the presumed murderer who was later identified as professional assassin Said Akbar.
The police were unable to maintain Law and order in Pakistan, especially in East Pakistan where riots and a serious uprising were quelled.
The policy was communicated to Liaquat Ali Khan on 1 October at a meeting of the Joint Defence Council.
The political crisis in the North-West Frontier Province and Balochistan escalated, with civil liberties suspended.
The political situation became more chaotic when lawyers launched a protest against this action and were arrested.
The populist ARD movement, which included the major political parties such as the PML and the PPP, used the issue to bring down Musharraf's presidency.
The position was absent during the years of 1958–1973, 1977–1985, and 1999–2002 due to imposed martial law.
The post was deleted by Twitter soon afterwards.
The post-1965 situation saw major organizational and technical changes in the Pakistan Army.
The posts at the initial officer level, i.e.
The poverty line was moved from ₨2,350 to ₨3,030 per adult per month, which increased the poverty ratio from 9.3% to 29.5%.
The power was given to PPP after the devastating war with India which ended with the secession of East-Pakistan.
The powers slowly began to be reduced as a result of constant intervention by the governor-general.
The practice is controversial throughout Pakistan, and the Council of Islamic Ideology has declared it to be "un-Islamic".
The practice of summary killing of a person suspected of an illicit liaison is known as karo kari in Sindh and Balochistan.
The predominant political movement in the Kashmir Valley, the National Conference led by Sheikh Abdullah, believed in secular politics.
The preference for sons due to their productive role often dictates the allocation of household resources in their favor.
The premier was also received by both Pakistani president and prime minister upon his arrival at the airport.
The presence of the British commanding officers on both sides made the Indo-Pakistani war of 1947 a strange war.
The presidency forms the vital institutional organ of state and is part of the bicameral Parliament.
The presidency of Ayub Khan is often celebrated as the "Great Decade", highlighting the economic development plans and reforms executed.
The presidency of Musharraf featured the arrival of liberal forces in national power for the first time in the history of Pakistan.
The presidency of Pervez Musharraf helped bring the liberal forces to the national level and into prominence, for the first time in the history of Pakistan.
The president can be removed for violation of the Constitution of Pakistan.
The president generally acts on the advice of the prime minister but has important residual powers.
The president has the right to defend oneself.
The president himself has absolute constitutional immunity from criminal and civil proceedings, and no proceedings can be initiated or continued against him during the term of his office.
The president is a ceremonial post, head of state, and merely a figurehead with the executive powers granted to the prime minister, by the Constitution.
The president is elected by the Electoral college, which consists of both houses of Parliament together with the provincial assemblies.
The president is elected for a term of 5 years.
The president is elected indirectly for a term of five years.
The president is indirectly elected by the Electoral College for a five-year term.
The president is the nominal head of the executive and the federal parliament, the first citizen of the country, and the supreme commander of the Pakistan Armed Forces.
The president may be removed before the expiry of the term through impeachment.
The president may resign or be impeached and may be removed from office due to incapacity or gross misconduct by a two-thirds vote of the members of the parliament.
The president of Pakistan is elected through presidential elections.
The president of Pakistan is the head of state of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
The president of Pakistan is the supreme commander of the army.
The president resides in an estate in Islamabad known as Aiwan-e-Sadar (President's House).
The president was a significant authority until the 18th amendment, passed in 2010, stripped the presidency of most of its powers.
The president, upon the advice of the Prime Minister, has full powers to summon and prorogue either house or a joint session of Parliament or to dissolve the National Assembly.
The president, who is at the apex, is elected by members of both houses of the Parliament and the Provincial Assemblies.
The pressure of the Human Rights group ultimately led the court to overturn her sentence.
The primary law governing nationality of Pakistan is the Pakistan Citizenship Act, 1951, which came into force on 13 April 1951.
The prime minister can be removed before the expiry of the term through a vote of no confidence in the parliament.
The prime minister has absolute constitutional immunity from criminal and civil proceedings, and no proceedings can be initiated or continued against him during the term of his office.
The prime minister is appointed by the members of the National Assembly through a vote.
The prime minister is assisted by the Federal Cabinet, a council of ministers whose members are appointed by the president on the advice of the prime minister.
The prime minister is designated as the "chief executive of the Islamic Republic".
The prime minister is elected by the National Assembly.
The prime minister is elected by the members of the National Assembly and is therefore usually the leader of the majority party in the parliament.
The prime minister is often the leader of the party or the coalition with a majority in the lower house of the federal parliament, the National Assembly, where he serves as leader of the House.
The prime minister is the chief executive who heads and exercises the authority of the Government of Pakistan.
The prime minister of Pakistan is the head of government and has the responsibility for executive power.
The prime minister of Pakistan[b] is the head of government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
The prime minister of Pakistan[b] is the head of the Government of Pakistan.
The prime minister sought a dialogue with his counterpart, and agreed to resolve the dispute of Kashmir in a peaceful manner through the efforts of the United Nations.
The prime minister, in common with all other ministers, has to be a member of National Assembly.
The prime minister, in consultation with the Cabinet, schedules and attends the sessions of the Parliament and is required to answer questions from members of parliament to the ministers.
The prime ministers from the PML-N include Nawaz Sharif (3 terms), Shahid Khaqan Abbasi (1 term) and Nawaz's younger brother, Shehbaz Sharif (2 terms), who is serving right now.
The prime ministers of the two countries exchanged telegrams accusing each other of bad intentions.
The princely states of India were advised by the departing British to choose whether to join Pakistan or India.
The principal workplace of the prime minister is the Prime Minister's Office located in northeast Islamabad.
The private sector actively encourages western educational models such as the General Certificate of Secondary Education using this to justify unaffordable fees they charge ordinary citizens.
The privatisation programme reversed the nationalisation by Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and the PPP in the 1970s.
The pro-American Republican Party gained a majority in West Pakistan, ousting the PML government.
The pro-Pakistan Hurriyat group has claimed a higher death toll of 80,000 including civilians, security forces and militants.
The pro-separatist Muslim League mobilized pirs and Sunni scholars to demonstrate that their view that India's Muslim masses wanted a separate country was in the majority, in their eyes.
The process of privatisation of the nationalised industries was associated with the marked performance and improvement, especially the terms of labour productivity.
The professor Maya Tudor concluded that "Jinnah could not be described as a practicing Muslim" given his consumption of pork, use of alcohol, and usage of interest.
The profundity of ideas and intensity of passion are the salient features of these short poems.
The program will include events and opportunities to experience U.S. life, showcasing its diversity.
The proliferation of the media in Pakistan since 2002 has brought a massive increase in the number of domestic and foreign journalists operating in Pakistan.
The prolonged Bengali resistance had not been anticipated by Pakistani planners, however.
The promise of economic aid from the United States was instrumental in creating these agreements.
The proposal elicited outrage in the east wing, already chafing under the other constitutional innovation, the "One Unit scheme".
The protesters also stole an oil tanker.
The protesters broke into the regional commander's house in Lahore and burned the building.
The protesters, led by Imran Khan, aimed to hold a sit-in at D-Chowk in Islamabad until the date for the dissolution of assemblies and a date for new general elections was announced.
The protestors burned cars and a public transit station and injured journalists and bystanders.
The protestors demanded the implementation of Sharia in the country and declaring Mumtaz Qadri a martyr.
The protestors were stirred up by the Afghan Prime Minister Mohammed Daoud Khan and bussed to the site.
The protests subsided after the Indian government announced a package of measures aimed at defusing the tensions in September 2010.
The province of Balochistan, Pakistan is full of Baloch nationalist parties, with some demanding autonomy for Balochistan, and some extreme groups demanding secession from Pakistan.
The province of Punjab supported the project, but all the other provinces protested against it and its centralisation of power.
The provinces would vote on whether to continue in the existing constituent assembly or to have a new one, that is, to join Pakistan.
The provincial bureaucracies are headed by the respective Chief Secretaries of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Sindh, Punjab and Balochistan.
The provincial government that exercise administrative control over them appoints such officers.
The provincial governments tend to have the greatest influence over most Pakistanis' daily lives.
The provincial military government under the famously authoritarian General Rahimuddin began to act as a separate entity and military regime independent of the central government.
The provision of reservation of seats for women in the Parliament existed throughout the constitutional history of Pakistan from 1956 to 1973.
The provisions of the Government of India Act, 1935, had greatly influenced the state and served as its basic legal document until 1956.
The public criticism led to their retrial and acquittal by the Federal Shariah Court.
The public reception in Pakistan over United States strikes on Iranian nuclear sites too has been negative.
The public works, welfare distribution are partly managed at the municipal unit level up to the federal level, which supervise and give legal authority for such works.
The purpose of it was for women to be provided with relief and to be able to have protection under the Hudood Ordinance and back into the prosecution under the Pakistani Criminal code.
The radical elements managed to force the Pakistan's government to put Asia Bibi on Exit Control List to prevent her from fleeing the country.
The rallies were attended by prominent leaders, including Manzoor Pashteen of the Pashtun Tahaffuz Movement (PTM) and Sardar Hussain Babak of the Awami National Party.
The rarified air at these altitudes affected ballistic trajectories of air to ground weapons, such as rockets, dumb and laser guided bombs.
The rate of women in the labor force has an annual growth rate of 6.5 percent.
The reason for the failure of the commando mission is attributed to the failure to provide maps, proper briefings and adequate planning or preparation.
The rebel forces in the western districts of Jammu were organised under the leadership of Sardar Ibrahim, a Muslim Conference leader.
The rebellion would only be quashed in 1956.
The rebels quickly gained control of almost the entire Poonch district.
The recommendation for appointment in BS-17, under direct recruitment share, is done by the Federal Public Service Commission, established under its law as a requirement of the Constitution.
The referendum there in July 1947 had been tainted by low turnout as less than 10 per cent of the population were allowed to vote.
The referendum was seen by many as a sham or fixed.
The regime came to power with the intent of instituting widespread reform and 'to bring the country back to sanity'.
The regime of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto (1970–1977) was a period of liberal attitudes towards women.
The regiment was also told to be on stand by for induction into fighting at an appropriate time.
The regimental records show that, by the last week of August, the 11th Prince Albert Victor's Own Cavalry (Frontier Force) (PAVO Cavalry) regiment was briefed about the invasion plan.
The region has also been full of religious parties, like the JUI-F especially throughout the north western areas near Afghanistan.
The region was heavily reinforced by the Indian I Corps commanded by Lt Gen Khem Karan Singh holding three infantry divisions, two independent armored brigades and two artillery brigades.
The region's strategic importance, with its oil and mineral wealth, and its proximity to India, has made the conflict a focal point in South Asian military tensions.
The registry branches provides speedy justice of all nature of crimes and disputes to the people living in remote areas in the country, while keeping the civil registry of the people.
The registry of the Supreme Court is its appointed officers who is assisted by registrars, several additional and deputy registrars, gazetted officers, and other law clerks.
The relations were also refrained and strained after Nawaz Sharif became involved with Kargil war with India, while India's relations with Israel and U.S. greatly enhanced.
The relationship between the two nations has been described as a "roller coaster" characterised by close coordination and lows marked by deep bilateral estrangement.
The relationship lasted two years, ending when he reportedly wrote that he could not love her as Emma would always be the love of his life.
The relationship relies on shared values of anti-colonialism and common allies.
The release of the film Zindagi Tamasha was suspended after religious uproar.
The remainder of the cavalry units were equipped with M4 Shermans and some M3A3 Stuart light tanks.
The remaining 10,324 to 12,500 prisoners were civilians, either family members of the military personnel or collaborators (Razakars).
The remaining 60 percent were pessimistic of a solution due to a distrust of Pakistan or a perception of threats to India's internal institutions.
The remaining prisoners were civilians who were either family members of the military personnel or volunteers (razakars).
The remarks made by Musharraf sparked outrage and protests both internationally and in Pakistan by various groups i.e.
The remittances from overseas Pakistanis, now totaling around $US25 billion per annum, constitute a dependable source of foreign exchange for Pakistan.
The reorganization of the position standing army in 2008, the Pakistan Army now operates six tactical commands, each commanded by the GOC-in-C, with a holding three-star rank: Lieutenant-General.
The report also claims that India knew about the plan 11 months before its launch, enabling a complete victory for India on military, diplomatic and economic fronts.
The report also highlighted broad changes in the examination system, with the recommendation that a personality test be made part of the selection process.
The report brought to light widespread intimidation of journalists by various government, military and security agencies with killings allegedly being carried out by the Inter-Services Intelligence.
The report notes that the UN conditions for such a plebiscite have not been, and can no longer be, met by Pakistan.
The report of the committee was presented with a draft Constitution on 31 December 1972.
The report stated that targeted killing in the city had dropped by over 80%.
The request was granted, and soon the United States built an airstrip, command and control station at the site before initiating operations.
The resentment over Pakistani defeat in the war resulted in a failed coup led by General Akbar Khan in 1951 against the government of Prime Minister Liaquat Ali Khan.
The residents of Azad Kashmir are also mostly Punjabi, differing in ethnicity from Kashmiris in the Indian administered section of the state.
The resignation was accepted by the governor on 1 April 2022.
The resolution was passed by the League session in Lahore on 23 March 1940.
The resolution was seconded and passed unanimously.
The resolution was tabled by Brazil with support from 19 of the 53 member countries of the UN Human Rights Commission (UNHRC) in Geneva.
The resolution was unanimously adopted and he held the office until the establishment of Pakistan in 1947.
The responsibility fell on the only armed forces officer available, Gp Capt AK Khondkar, chief of the newly formed BAF.
The rest of the day is allocated for the recording of the evidence in sessions cases such as in offences murder, rape and robbery etc.
The rest of the seats went to the independents.
The rest-house was secured by military personnel, and his communications with the outside world were heavily restricted to prevent any interference with the confidential commission's investigation.
The result of the proceedings was the acquittal of PML-N leader Nawaz Sharif by the Islamabad High Court (IHC) on 29 November 2023 from the charges pertaining to the Avenfield Apartments references.
The result was that his even-handedness pushed Pakistan closer to Communist China and India closer to the Soviet Union.
The result was the Pakistan Armed Forces surrender to the liberation forces upon which 93,000 Pakistani soldiers and officers became POWs, the largest since World War II.
The resultant battle raged till the end of the war on 16 December and recorded heavy losses on both sides.
The resulting Indo-Pakistani War ended with a UN-mediated ceasefire along a line that was eventually named the Line of Control.
The resulting commission, led by Liberal MP John Simon, though with a majority of Conservatives, arrived in India in March 1928.
The resulting lawlessness prevailed in the largest metropolitan city of Pakistan, which led to the country's president dissolving the National Assembly.
The revelation emerged during a meeting of the NA Standing Committee on Interior.
The revenue courts may be classified as the Board of Revenue, the Commissioner, the Collector, the Assistant Collector of the First Grade and Second Grade.
The review began two years early as Baldwin feared he would lose the next election (which he did, in 1929).
The riots were investigated by a two-member court of inquiry in 1954, which was criticised by the Jamaat-e-Islami, one of the parties accused of inciting the riots.
The rise of sectarian extremism is an alarming consequence of this denial of basic political rights".
The rivalry between the two leaders grew in late 2011 when Khan addressed a large crowd at Minar-e-Pakistan in Lahore.
The role of Dr. Afridi was exposed by the British newspaper The Guardian in July 2011.
The role of the Pakistani military during that time has been described by some international observers as a "creeping invasion" of Afghanistan.
The role of the Pakistani military has been described by international observers as well as by the anti-Taliban leader Ahmad Shah Massoud as a "creeping invasion".
The root for the article 19 freedom of expression traced from South Asia when any body was directly sentenced to death if they uttered a single word against the government.
The roots of terrorism in Pakistan can be traced back to 1979 when Soviet Union had occupied Afghanistan.
The royalist government of Iran also released a stamp commemorating the centennial of Jinnah's birth in 1976.
The rulers of the states were advised to join one of the two dominions by executing an Instrument of Accession.
The ruling also installed Chaudhry Pervaiz Elahi as the Chief Minister of Punjab.
The ruling followed his failure to respond to the suit or a blood test request.
The said service is highly secured and available 24/7/365.
The same day, India's Ministry of External Affairs stated that Yadav had had no involvement with the government since his early retirement from the Indian Navy.
The same day, a counteroffensive consisting of an armoured division and infantry division supported by Pakistan Air Force Sabres forced the Indian 15th Division to withdraw to its starting point.
The same month also saw a Kashmiri militant attack on Ayodhya and Srinagar.
The same year Najam Sethi described Nawaz's government as "corrupt, absolutely, astronomically corrupt, including the prime minister".
The same year Pakistan signed the Indus Waters Treaty with India in an attempt to normalise relations.
The same year elections were held for the central legislative assembly which were contested by Khan from the Barielly constituency.
The same year the first legislative elections were held in Pakistan, which saw the communists gaining control of East Pakistan.
The same year, Jinnah declared Urdu as official language of Pakistan.
The sanctity of the LOC too received international recognition.
The seats in National Assembly, unlike the Senate, are allocated to each province and other units of the federation, on the basis of population.
The seats in the National Assembly are allocated to each of four provinces, the FATA and the federal capital on the basis of population in accordance with the last officially published census.
The seats in the National Assembly are allocated to each province and the federal capital based on population, as officially published in the preceding census.
The second Constituent Assembly of Pakistan was created on 28 May 1955 under Governor General's Order No.12 of 1955.
The second local government election was held in 1979 under the dictatorship of General Zia-ul-Haq.
The second set of poems date from 1905 to 1908, when Iqbal studied in Europe, and dwell upon the nature of European society, which he emphasised had lost spiritual and religious values.
The secretaries, who are basic pay scale (BPS)-22 grade officers, are largely considered to be the most powerful officials in the country.
The security forces say the unidentified dead are militants who may have originally come from outside India.
The senators are elected by the members of all provincial assemblies (MPAs) by proportional representation, while four represent the federal capital.
The senior military appointments in the inter-services were extremely important and crucial for Musharraf to keep the legitimacy and the support for his coup in the joint inter-services.
The sentence also extended to his daughter Maryum Nawaz, and Son-in-Law Retired Captain Safdar, who were given 7 years and 1 year imprisonment respectively.
The sentence was suspended on 1 April, pending a court decision after Eid.
The separation of powers system is designed to distribute authority away from the executive branch – an attempt to preserve individual liberty in response to tyrannical leadership throughout history.
The separatists in Kashmir deny these allegations.
The series caused a stress fracture in his left shin, sidelining him over two years.
The series of coups known as Peshawar Conspiracy Cases; the British Empire was terrified after the intelligence on attempted communist revolution in the Raj were revealed to authorities.
The service chiefs were appointed by the Dominion governments and were responsible to them.
The service has been declared the biggest voters’ database, comprising more than 128.8 million voters for mobile customers of 190 million in the country.
The service of Pakistan Administrative Service is very versatile in nature and officers are assigned to different departments all across Pakistan during the course of their careers.
The settlement was perceived negatively by many Pakistanis and led Foreign Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto to resign his post and take up opposition to Ayub Khan.
The settlement would pave the way for Russia to invest over $8 billion in Pakistan.
The seventeen day war caused thousands of casualties on both sides and witnessed the largest engagement of armoured vehicles and the largest tank battle since World War II.
The seventeen-day war caused thousands of casualties on both sides and witnessed the largest engagement of armored vehicles and the largest tank battle since World War II.
The shawl is draped over the shoulders and sometimes over the head, usually for prayer.
The shutdown came after the network attempted to air allegations on the involvement of Inter-Services Intelligence in the attempted assassination of its leading anchor Hamid Mir.
The significant land reforms included the reduction of land ceilings and the introduction of tenancy security for tenant farmers.
The simultaneous conflicts in the Kargil war with India and Afghanistan's civil war, along with economical turmoil, turned public opinion against Nawaz and his policies.
The single combat headquarter, the Army GHQ, is located in Rawalpindi Cantonment in Punjab in Pakistan, in the vicinity of the Joint Staff Headquarters.
The sinking of INS Khukri was followed by another Indian attack on the port of Karachi on the night of 8/9 December 1971 under the codename Python.
The situation drew international reactions from separatist leaders and the United Nations.
The situation was controlled by Nazimuddin who issued a waiver granting the Bengali language equal status, a right codified in the 1956 constitution.
The six day battle resulted in an Indian victory and provided for a launch pad for IAF reconnaissance mission into East Pakistan.
The small Green Party has expressed some support for LGBTQ rights, but political groups tend to avoid the issue or express opposition.
The social and cultural context of Pakistani society has historically been predominantly patriarchal.
The socialist Pakistan People's Party (PPP) under the leadership of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto gained a mandate in Punjab and Sindh but failed in East Pakistan, NWFP and Balochistan.
The socialist Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) had won the exclusive mandate in four provinces of West Pakistan but none in East Pakistan.
The socialist leanings of the government and Bhutto's proposed left-wing theories, had badly upset the United States, with some fearing the loss of Pakistan as an ally in the Cold War.
The socio-political and cultural factors including a prominent rural urban divide significantly shape the status of women across the region.
The soldier was injured in a clash with militants and he was evacuated by the Pakistan military.
The sole surviving gunman Ajmal Kasab who was arrested during the attacks was found to be a Pakistani national.
The speaker is assisted by the Deputy Speaker.
The speaker of the National Assembly then summons the joint session not earlier than seven days.
The special operation forces training school is located in Cherat in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
The sporadic fighting between the insurgency and the army started in 1973, with the largest confrontation taking place in September 1974.
The state authorities responded with increasing use of brute force to simple economic demands.
The state began a rigorous crackdown on atheism starting in 2017, causing conditions to deteriorate significantly.
The state foreign policy includes defining the national interest, as well as the economic interest and strategies chosen both to safeguard that and to achieve its policy goals.
The state had an overwhelming Hindu population which constituted more than 80% of its citizens, while its ruler, Nawab Mahabat Khan, was a Muslim.
The state parliament, supreme court, major government, and authoritarian institutions also regained their statuses.
The state, however, no longer publishes daily newspapers; the former Press Trust sold or liquidated its newspapers and magazines in the early 1990s.
The statement came hours after anonymous Pakistani security officials reportedly confirmed the airstrikes.
The statement released by Nawaz's office quoted Trump calling Nawaz a "terrific guy", adding that Pakistan is a "fantastic country, fantastic place".
The states' subsequent accession to Pakistan meant that former protected persons became British subjects of Pakistan.
The stories have left me with a deep impression.
The strategies yielded dividends and the Congress won 26 seats, while the NC secured 46.
The strength of this Assembly was 80 Members, half each from East Pakistan and West Pakistan.
The strikes led to India declaring war on Pakistan, marking their entry into the war for East Pakistan's independence, on the side of Bengali nationalist forces.
The strong military ties primarily aim to counter regional Indian and American influence, and was also to repel Soviet influence in the area.
The subsequent takeover of Afghanistan by the Afghan Taliban was followed by the release of 1500 TTP militants from Afghan jails.
The successful defence included an outflanking manoeuvre by Indian armoured cars during the Battle of Shalateng.
The successful independence movement led the establishment of Pakistan, independent from the British Raj in 1947.
The successive governments in Pakistan, and the parliamentarians have contributed to ensure women's significant representation in the legislative bodies.
The superior judiciary is composed of the Supreme Court of Pakistan, the Federal Shariat Court and five High Courts, with the Supreme Court at the apex.
The support that China and Pakistan give each other is considered significant in global diplomacy, and has been compared to Israel–United States relations and Russia–Serbia relations.
The supposed motive for the killing was blasphemous and insulting rhetoric towards Islam.
The supposedly "blasphemous" material includes criticism of ulama and an alleged reference to bacha bazi.
The suspects were detained at an undisclosed location by a joint team of Punjab Police, the Federal Investigation Agency and other Pakistani intelligence agencies.
The system of government in Pakistan is based on codified constitution which sees the prime minister as "chief executive of the Republic".
The targeted killing near a major administrative hub highlighted the deteriorating security situation for dissenting voices and raised concerns about the state's failure to protect democratic actors.
The task of repelling the Pakistani forces was given to the 15th Corps under the command of Lt Gen Kishan Pal.
The task was to be performed by the National Commission of Government Reforms (NCGR) under the chairmanship of Dr. Ishrat Hussain, the former governor of State Bank of Pakistan.
The taxation is said to have been heavy.
The tensions between Khan and the army arose in 2021, when Khan tried to appoint his own choice as the new ISI chief.
The tenure of a Member of the National Assembly is for the duration of the House, or sooner, in case the Member dies or resigns.
The tenure of the National Assembly also comes to an end if dissolved on the advice of the Prime Minister or by the President in his discretion under the Constitution.
The term "CSS" emerged during the first public examination of the civil service for the appointment on posts at officer entry-level in the occupational groups of All-Pakistan Unified Group (APUG).
The term of the members of the Senate is 6 years.
The term of this Assembly was three years.
The terrain makes it difficult for both sides to maintain a strict border control over Line of Control.
The territories of Gilgit-Baltistan and Azad Kashmir are also part of the country but have separate systems and are not part of the federation.
The territory occupied by India was mainly in the fertile Sialkot, Lahore and Kashmir sectors, while Pakistani ground gains were primarily in deserts opposite Sindh and in the Chumb sector in Kashmir.
The terrorists successfully breached the security cover around the Red Fort and opened fire at the Indian military personnel on duty killing two of them on spot.
The test was led by CERN-physicist Dr. Ishfaq Ahmad, and was witnessed by other senior scientists belonging to Pakistan Armed Forces and the PAEC.
The tests were extremely popular and PML-N's image and prestige rose to a record level at home.
The then serving governor-general, Major General Iskander Mirza, assumed office as the first president.
The then serving governor-general, Major-General Iskander Mirza, assumed office as the first president.
The third local government election was held after the coup tenure of Pervez Musharraf in 2000.
The third major difference was itself in the Muslim League; the party had weak political structure with no public base ground or support.
The threat of WMD included chemical and even biological weapons.
The three major parties Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) led by Imran Khan, the Pakistan Muslim League led by Shehbaz Sharif and the Pakistan Peoples Party led by Bilawal Bhutto.
The three-member panel of the special court which issued the order was spearheaded by Chief Justice of the Peshawar High Court Waqar Ahmed Seth.
The top court on Tuesday ordered the government to hold snap polls in the country's most populous province of Punjab on 14 May.
The topic of LGBTQ issues remains taboo in Pakistan to discuss, despite curiosity.
The total air dominance of the IAF gave the aircrew enough time to modify aiming indices and firing techniques, increasing its effectiveness during the high altitude war.
The total area seized by the ingress is generally accepted to between 130 and 200 km2 (50 and 80 sq mi).
The total fertility rate is 2.75 children born/woman (2015 est.
The total number of Indian soldiers that were involved in the military operation on the Kargil-Drass sector was thus close to 30,000.
The total number of people killed in East Pakistan is not known with any degree of accuracy.
The town of Kargil is located 205 km (127 mi) from Srinagar, facing the Northern Areas across the LOC.
The town was held by an outnumbered Infantry Company under Major K. S. Chandapuri and few border guards but had heavy IAF support.
The town where the battle was fought came to be known as Patton Nagar, named after the thoroughly destroyed US-made M48 Patton tanks in the battle.
The transmission of data was frozen when publicly released results reached around 60% to 85% of the vote tallying for most constituencies.
The trauma was severe in Pakistan, a psychological setback and emotional breakdown for Pakistan.
The treaty ensured that Pakistan recognized the independence of Bangladesh in exchange for the return of the Pakistani PoWs.
The treaty provided insurance to Bangladesh that Pakistan recognised Bangladesh's sovereignty, in exchange for the return of the Pakistani POWs.
The trial for rape shall conclude within three months.
The tribal forces attacked and captured Jhanger.
The tribal forces were also joined by troops from Chitral, whose ruler, Muzaffar ul-Mulk the Mehtar of Chitral, had acceded to Pakistan.
The tribunal's sentence was never made public, but Yahya caused the verdict to be held in abeyance in any case.
The true scale of the incursions was only recognised by the high command after the CCS meeting on 18 May after which heavy mobilisation began and division level movement was ordered.
The turnout remained low: in Lahore, the turnout was 30 percent of the listed voters, and in rural areas of Punjab it was much lower.
The two JUIs run over 65 percent of all madrassas in Pakistan.
The two air forces were rather equal in the conflict because much of the Indian air force remained farther east to guard against the possibility of China entering the war.
The two began to blame each other for many political reasons.
The two commanding officers were in daily telephone contact and adopted mutually defensive positions.
The two countries agreed to reduce their military levels along the border and agreed not to attack their respective nuclear installations.
The two countries are members of the OIC, and the Commonwealth of Nations and share similar regional and international concerns.
The two countries are progressing the finalisation of a Free Trade Agreement.
The two countries carried out their first-ever joint military drills in 2016.
The two countries have agreements on cultural cooperation and visa abolition (for diplomatic/official passport holders).
The two countries have made contradictory claims of combat losses during the war, and few neutral sources have verified the claims of either country.
The two countries signed a defense cooperation agreement in 2014.
The two generals discussed matters of mutual interest with emphasis on improving defence cooperation, army-to-army relations the security situation in the region, especially in Afghanistan post 2014.
The two governments agreed to repatriate abducted women and thousands of Hindu, Sikh and Muslim women were repatriated to their families in the 1950s.
The two nations also share some of the same traditional games, such as kabaddi and kho kho.
The two organisations also worked closely during the Soviet–Afghan War supporting groups such as Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's Hezb-i Islami and Jalaluddin Haqqani, leader of the Haqqani network.
The two parties along with seven other right-wing conservative and religious parties united with encouragement and funding from the ISI to form the Islami Jamhuri Ittihad (IJI).
The two parties also won 19 of 23 provincial assembly seats where by-elections were held.
The two provinces Punjab and Bengal with large Muslim-majority areas were to be divided between the two dominions.
The two sides exchanged views on regional and international developments.
The two states also signed an MoU for the construction of rail tracks in Afghanistan to connect with Pakistan Railways (PR), which has been in the making since at least 2005.
The two were subsequently arrested on their arrival in Lahore on 13 July and imprisoned in the Adiala Jail.
The two women were only fully released in April 1980.
The two-man rule political regime was evolved under President Mirza and his appointed chief martial law administration and then-army chief General Ayub Khan.
The unemployment and labour strikes began to take place which halted and jammed the economic wheel of the country, and Bhutto was unable to solve these issues due to the cold war with the President.
The uniform of the Pasban-e-Aman resembles to that of Elite Force having ATS sign on caps and Pasban-e-Aman written on the right shoulder.
The united front can be formed under the leadership of the Muslim League.
The units of military police led by Lieutenant-General Iftikhar sealed the civilian airport and seized the control tower, allowing the plane to land on a runway.
The university students and professors who often bore the brunt of Ayub Khan's presidency during his decade-long rule were promised a better future with better educational and career opportunities.
The vacuum on the left generated by the disunity of the National Awami Party was effectively filled by the Pakistan Peoples Party as a united front of opposition to Ayub Khan.
The value of the bilateral trade relationship between Pakistan and Canada was close to C$694 million (approximately US$701 million) in 2007.
The vast financial resources of the firm and its superior military enabled it to defeat rival European trade companies and become the dominant power in India.
The vast majority of this minority group were stateless until 2008, when the Bangladesh High Court ruled that Biharis born in the country would be granted citizenship.
The vessels are supplied by the China Shipbuilding Trading Company, and financed to Pakistan at a low interest rate.
The video evidence released on electronic media confirmed the incident.
The view of Jinnah in the West has been shaped to some extent by his portrayal in Sir Richard Attenborough's 1982 film, Gandhi.
The violence unleashed by the Pakistani forces on 25 March 1971 proved the last straw to the efforts to negotiate a settlement.
The violence was condemned and labelled as ethnic cleansing in a 2006 resolution passed by the United States Congress.
The visit further cemented strong ties between the two countries and brought them closer.
The visit was criticised by the United States.
The vote would be conducted under the supervision of Ayaz Sadiq, resulting in the election of Shehbaz Sharif as the Prime Minister of Pakistan.
The voter turnout for the election was 35,170,435 people (44%).
The voter turnout was recorded at 95.6% and such confirmation was used as impetus to formalise the new system – a presidential system.
The voting was scheduled to take place on 3 April.
The war also exposed the shortcomings of Pakistan's declared strategic doctrine that the "defence of East Pakistan lay in West Pakistan".
The war began with Pakistan's Operation Chengiz Khan, consisting of preemptive aerial strikes on eight Indian air stations.
The war changed the geopolitical landscape of South Asia, with the emergence of Bangladesh as the world's seventh-most populous country.
The war confirmed the independence of Bangladesh.
The war had produced higher than expected fatalities for the Indian military, with a sizeable percentage of them including newly commissioned officers.
The war lasted until 23 September, ending in a stalemate.
The war led a substantial number of refugees (estimated at the time to be about 10 million) to flood India's eastern provinces.
The war saw the aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) and the Pakistan Air Force (PAF) engaging in combat for the first time since independence.
The war saw the first offensive operations undertaken by the Indian Navy against an enemy port, when Karachi harbour was attacked twice during Operation Trident (1971) and Operation Python.
The war showed that despite a tactically sound plan that had the element of surprise, little groundwork had been done to gauge the political ramifications.
The war was heading for a stalemate, with both nations holding territory of the other.
The war was initially fought by the Jammu and Kashmir State Forces and by militias from the frontier tribal areas adjoining the North-West Frontier Province.
The war was militarily inconclusive; each side held prisoners and some territory belonging to the other.
The war with India was met with disfavor by the United States, which dismayed Pakistan by adopting a policy of denying military aid to both India and Pakistan.
The war, which ended militarily in a stalemate, was mostly fought in the west.
The wave of terrorism in Pakistan is believed to have started in 2000.
The wedding received much media attention and was said to transfix both India and Pakistan.
The well documented influence of Iqbal on Jinnah, with regard to taking the lead in creating Pakistan, has been described as "significant", "powerful" and even "unquestionable" by scholars.
The western contingent's lawmakers determinately followed the idea of a westernised Parliamentary form of democracy, while East Pakistan opted for becoming a socialist state.
The western zone was popularly (and, for a period, also officially) termed West Pakistan and the eastern zone (modern-day Bangladesh) was initially termed East Bengal and later East Pakistan.
The widespread rape of Bangladeshi women led to birth of thousands of war babies.
The woman died while staff mocked and belittled the patient and her friends; treatment was significantly delayed while staff decided whether her care should occur in a male ward or female ward.
The women legislators elected through indirect mode of election undermine their credibility and effectiveness as politicians.
The world's first bilingual Urdu-Russian dictionary was compiled and launched by Uzbek scholar Dr. Tashmirza Khalmirzaev in 2012 at a ceremony in Islamabad.
The year 2025 saw an elevenfold increase to the arrests of Afghans compared to the year prior, according to the UNHCR.
The years 1946–1947 saw the rise of All-India Muslim League and Muslim nationalism, demanding a separate state for India's Muslims.
The young girls are forcibly married off in order to resolve the feuds between different clans; the Vani can be avoided if the clan of the girl agrees to pay money, called Deet, to other clans.
Their brief was simple: to hold the post and to keep Pakistan's infantry battalions from overrunning the post at bay.
Their cases were appealed all the way to the Supreme Court of Pakistan.
Their contributions serve as a powerful reminder that behind every embroidered piece lies a story of resilience, skill, and strength.
Their defense lawyer was the notable Bengali Muslim politician Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy.
Their family house, built in 1890, is located in the Muhallah Shaikh Ul Islam street of Ganj area in Peshawar's Walled City, once serving as the main administrative area.
Their leader, Benazir Bhutto, became the first female prime minister of Pakistan as well as the first female head of government in a Muslim-majority country.
Their movement was led by wives and other relatives of leading politicians.
Their policies were very similar but a clash of personalities occurred, with both parties making many promises but not explaining how they were going to pay for them.
Their presence in society is usually tolerated and are considered blessed in the Pakistani culture.
Their propaganda foregrounded what they presented as her un-Islamic behaviour, including a photo of her dancing in a Parisian nightclub.
Their relationship did not progress, as Philipson felt out of place and found cultural differences irreconcilable.
Their removal was ordered on the grounds that the de jure Chief Justice was not allowed to advise in these cases.
Their representation remained low in the first and second Constituent Assemblies, however the amendments to the Constitution of Pakistan paved way for their increased participation in the parliament.
Their role is similar to district governors, with responsibility for implementing government strategy and developing initiatives arising out of it.
Their slogan was wanting the law of the Quran in the Assembly.
Their strategy was to force Pakistan to move its troops to the border with India, thereby relieving pressure on Al-Qaeda elements hiding in northwestern Pakistan.
Their suspicions were further aggravated by the military dictatorships of Ayub Khan (27 October 1958 – 25 March 1969) and Yahya Khan (25 March 1969 – 20 December 1971), both West Pakistanis.
Then, Akhtar Hussain Malik criticised Ayub Khan for inventing Operation Gibraltar, which ultimately failed, and for denying him command at a crucial point in the conflict.
There are 18 women Senators; Pakistani constitution requires that there be at least 17 women Senators.
There are a number of legislative and regulatory mechanisms that directly and indirectly affect the media.
There are also extensive people to people links between Canada and Pakistan with an estimated 22,000 Pakistanis living in Canada.
There are also revenue courts that operate under the West Pakistan Land Revenue Act 1967.
There are also special courts to try terrorists.
There are also suggestions that help given to IDPs is informed by cultural and political expediency, as in the case of a $300 family cash grant.
There are an estimated 554,202 self-identified Pakistani Americans living in the United States and about 52,486 Americans residing in Pakistan.
There are approximately 4500 Pakistanis living in Libya.
There are armies which guard their nation's borders, there are armies which are concerned with protecting their own position in society, and there are armies which defend a cause or an idea.
There are around 32,500 Pakistani people living and working in Greece.
There are close relations between Jordan and Pakistan.
There are five high courts of Pakistan, each based in the capital city of the four provinces, plus one in the federal capital, Islamabad.
There are four provincial governments that rule the four provinces of the state.
There are hundreds of Pakistani newspapers from the large national Urdu newspapers to the small local vernacular papers.
There are issues around the dowry system such as dowry related violence, in which the wife is abused by her husband.
There are more than 100 reported judgments to his name.
There are no specific requirements for citizenship resumption other than making a written declaration to the government.
There are over five thousand local governments in Pakistan.
There are proposals for the house to be offered to the government of Pakistan to establish a consulate in the city as a goodwill gesture, but Dina Wadia had also staked a claim on the property.
There are representatives from the Federally Administered Tribal Areas and from Islamabad Capital Territory.
There are several paths of becoming the commissioned officer in the army including the admission and required graduation from the Pakistan Military Academy in Kakul.
There are situations where such cases have come into the limelight.
There are strong military ties between China and Pakistan.
There are thirty-four (34) Standing Committees of the National Assembly, out of which only two (2) are headed by the women MNAs.
There are thirty-six (36) parliamentary secretaries who are serving at different ministries and divisions of the government of Pakistan, out of which fourteen (14) positions are held by women.
There are three dominating media moguls, or large media groups, which to some extent also have political affiliations.
There are three major wars that have taken place between the two states, namely in 1947, 1965 and the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971.
There are unfounded rumors that after the Islamic Revolution in Iran (1979), his grave was desecrated.
There are various cities such as Birmingham, Blackburn and Manchester where British Indians and British Pakistanis live alongside each other in peace and harmony.
There had already been ethnically charged violence and movement of populations; publication of the Radcliffe Line dividing the new nations sparked mass migration, murder, and ethnic cleansing.
There had been anger that her husband had been allowed to attend cabinet meetings despite not being a member of the government.
There has also been a sharp rise in the popularity of centrist parties such as PML-Q and PTI.
There has been considerable amount of anti-Pakistan sentiment in Afghanistan, while negative sentiment towards the Afghan refugees was widespread in Pakistan, even in Pashtun-dominated regions.
There has been criticism and opposition to this move in Pakistan, India, and Pakistani-administered Kashmir.
There has been four times that the martial law has been in effect, and controversially approved by the supreme court.
There has been little meaningful dialogue to end the long-standing conflict.
There has since been no major change in this bureaucratic set-up since it was first implemented by the British, although reforms were proposed by the Musharraf regime in 2007.
There have also been conflagrations in the provinces of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Balochistan and Azad Kashmir.
There have been a number of reports about the Afghanistan–Pakistan skirmishes, which usually occur when army soldiers are in hot pursuit chasing insurgents who cross the border back and forth.
There have been a total of 13 presidents.
There have been a total of 14 presidents.
There have been claims of disappearances by the police or the army in Kashmir by several human rights organisations.
There have been delays reported in the processing of asylum or relocation applications.
There have been high-profile corruption cases against high-ranking elected officials in Pakistan.
There have been instances where Afghan soldiers injured in fighting the militants near the Pakistan Afghanistan border are sent to Pakistan for treatment.
There have been numerous unsuccessful coup attempts in Pakistani history.
There have been several neutral assessments of the losses incurred by both India and Pakistan during the war.
There have been several thousand "honour" killings in Pakistan in the past decade, with hundreds reported in 2013.
There have been three incarnations of Al-Badr.
There is a Chief Justice and two additional judges on the court.
There is a High Court for each of the four provinces as well as the federal capital.
There is a Pakistan-Uruguay Chamber of Commerce.
There is a Pakistani High Commission located in Sri Lanka and a Sri Lankan High Commission sit"Sri Lanka"uated in Pakistan.
There is a bicameral Parliament with the National Assembly as a Lower house and the Senate as an upper house.
There is a clear divide between Urdu and English media.
There is a high court for the Islamabad Capital Territory and four provincial high courts.
There is a second mission based at the UNO office in Geneva, Switzerland.
There is a trade and cultural pact between the two countries, under which the import and export of various goods is done on fairly large scale.
There is also a clip of an interview with a local who flaunts how he killed a man raping a 15-year-old boy along with the victim.
There is also a federal capital territory and two territories which have similar governments but with some differences.
There is also a growing number of Pakistanis (mostly university students) living in Riga.
There is also a preferential trade agreement between the two states.
There is also a village in India named Pakistan, despite occasional pressure over the years to change its name the villagers have resisted.
There is also provision for appointment of acting judges as well as ad hoc judges in the court.
There is considerable evidence that legislation during this period has negatively impacted Pakistani women's lives and made them more vulnerable to extreme violence.
There is evidence linking the Haqqani Network to the Pakistan government.
There is little support for those living outside of camps, official support consists only of some food and non-food items and government cash grants.
There is no legal compulsion on women to hold any highest public office.
There is no merit system for selection of Judges to higher Judiciary.
There was a surge in patriotism, with many celebrities expressing their support for the Kargil cause.
There was also a meeting between Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and President Richard Nixon in November 1971, in which the former rejected American advice against intervening in the conflict.
There was also the 2nd Independent Armoured Brigade, one of whose three regiments, the 3rd Cavalry, was also equipped with Centurions.
There was an attempted assassination of Imran Khan during the early days of the march.
There was great opposition to the marriage from Rattanbai's family and the Parsi community, as well as from some Muslim religious leaders.
There was highest recorded participation in this election.
There was hope among many observers that her premiership would mark a new era of multi-party democracy, growing gender equality, and better relations with India.
There was hope that strong central leadership could stabilise the economy and promote modernisation and the restoration of a stable form of democracy.
There was never a smoking gun in the Bhutto investigation.
There was nevertheless much mutual suspicion among the parties in the MRD, with Bhutto having reluctantly allowed groups that firmly opposed her father's government to join.
There was no conception that population transfers would be necessary because of the partitioning.
There was no minimum residence requirement and candidates simply needed approval from a relevant official.
There was no notion of responsibility that allowed duty bearers to selectively hold out on protection.
There was no opposition at all by the Pakistani Air Force, leaving the IAF free to carry out its attacks with impunity.
There was particular dissatisfaction in Sindh and Balochistan Provinces, and Nawaz faced a lack of capital investment to finance additional projects.
There was significant sectarian violence not only perpetrated and encouraged by the Pakistani army, but also by Bengali nationalists against non-Bengali minorities, especially Biharis.
There was unrest across India, which worsened after the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in Amritsar, in which British Indian Army troops fired upon a protest meeting, killing hundreds.
There were also allegations that he had allowed Khalistan terrorist groups to train in Jammu province, although those allegations were never proved.
There were also reports that PPP armed personnel in police uniforms removed ballot boxes.
There were far fewer public hopes regarding the second Bhutto premiership than there had been for the first.
There were four army generals who were central in staging Musharraf's coup against Sharif's government: General Ehsan ul Haq, Aziz Khan, Mahmood Ahmad, and Shahid Aziz.
There were four major generals in the race: Muhammed Akbar Khan, Iftikhar Khan, Ishfakul Majid, and Nawabzada Agha Mohammad Raza.
There were mass speculations that protestors and law enforcement agencies would have violently collided otherwise had they not intervened.
There were nineteen (19) women in the Senate including seventeen elected on reserved seats and two elected on general seats for the term from 2015 to 2018.
There were no organised protests within the country to the coup, that was widely criticised by the international community.
There were no women registered as voters in the 1951 Jammu and Kashmir elections.
There were protests against Bhutto and public disorder, causing Chief of the Army Staff General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq to take power in a bloodless coup.
There were shortages of machinery, not all of which was made in Pakistan.
There were three lieutenant-generals potentially in line to succeed General Jehangir Karamat as chief of army staff.
There were two extremely important military appointments made by Musharraf in the Navy.
There were two main contestants: the Pakistan Muslim League led by President Ayub Khan and the Combined Opposition Parties (COP) under the leadership of Fatima Jinnah.
There were widespread protests in India.
There's also the MQM-Haqiqi faction led by Afaq Ahmed.
There, Bhutto also gave a public talk at the Council of Foreign Relations.
There, Musharraf contacted top Pakistan Army generals who took over the country and ousted Nawaz's administration.
There, she was introduced to the Indian prime minister Indira Gandhi.
There, some fired Kalashnikovs into the air in celebration, accidentally resulting in one death and multiple injuries.
Thereafter, he went to the United States and visited the US State Department and Pentagon to lobby for forging military relations.
Thereafter, the Governor General, convened the Second Constituent Assembly in May 1955, which framed and passed the first Constitution of Pakistan on 29 February 1956.
Thereafter, the Skardu Garrison was subjected to continuous attacks by the Pakistan Army for the next three months and each time, their attack was repulsed by the Colonel Sher Jung Thapa and his men.
Therefore he turned to Ayub Khan and the military for help.
Therefore, both nation's armies will be evenly matched in the first 24 hours since the Pakistani units have to travel a shorter distance to their forward positions.
Therefore, he did not send troops to Kashmir region.
Therefore, they needed to win 13 seats to gain a majority in the assembly.
Therefore, they needed to win 9 seats to gain a majority in the assembly.
Thirteen days later, Mirza himself was exiled by Ayub Khan, who appointed himself president.
Those Barelvis who supported the creation of a separate Muslim homeland in colonial India believed that any co-operation with Hindus would be counter productive.
Those accused of blasphemy are subject to immediate incarceration, and most accused are denied bail to forestall mob violence.
Those involved reportedly included Chief of General Staff Major General Akbar Khan and Marxist-socialist politician Faiz Ahmad Faiz, the leaders of the coup plot.
Those naturalised in colonies were said to have gone through local naturalisation and were given subject status valid only within the relevant territory.
Those who are accused of blasphemy may be subject to harassment, threats, and attacks.
Those who ate them were taken seriously ill.
Those who pass both these stages are interviewed by members of Service Commissions, and recommendations are made to the respective High Courts for appointments.
Though Abdullah asserted that he went on behalf of Indira Gandhi and his father, so that sentiments there could "be known first hand", few people believed him.
Though Butt was not the preferred choice of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, he grew close with him, and Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee General Pervez Musharraf took over important ISI files.
Though India rejected the resolution, it accepted a suitably amended version of it negotiated by the UN Commission set up for the purpose, as did Pakistan towards the end of 1948.
Though Pakistani media enjoy relative freedom compared to some of its South Asian neighbours, the industry was subjected to many undemocratic and regressive laws and regulations.
Though Richard Nixon maintained amicable relations with Bhutto, Pakistan's ties with the United States soured during Jimmy Carter's presidency as the US opposed Pakistan's nuclear program.
Though Sid rejects the allegations, Aurat March organisers issued a statement that she intimidated them.
Though no group has claimed responsibility, analysts suspect Islamic State’s Khorasan Province, which opposes the Afghan Taliban.
Though no terrorist group claimed responsibility for the attacks, Mumbai Police and RAW suspected Lashkar-e-Toiba's hand in the twin blasts.
Though the Sharif family are known to have strong Barelvi thoughts.
Though the United Nations condemned the human rights violations during and following Operation Searchlight, it failed to defuse the situation politically before the start of the war.
Thousands of activists from the Jamaat-e-Islami party were appointed to government posts to ensure the continuation of his agenda after his death.
Thousands of people fled their homes on both sides after the violence erupted on 5 October.
Thousands of people rounded up as suspected terrorists continue to languish in illegal military detention without being produced in court or prosecuted.
Thousands of supporters whistled and cheered as they hoisted Nawaz and his brother on their shoulders.
Three Indian corps were involved in the liberation of East Pakistan.
Three Round Table Conferences followed over as many years, none of which resulted in a settlement.
Three battalions from the Corps fought against the battalion sized deployment of the 12th Frontier Force of Pakistan.
Three brigades (eventually 8 battalions) were raised for conventional warfare; a large guerrilla force (estimated at 100,000) was trained.
Three different research studies, according to Klausen and Wink, note that Pakistan had the world's highest percentage of missing girls, relative to its total pre-adult female population.
Three merchant navy ships – Anwarbaksh, Pasni and Madhumathi – and ten smaller vessels were captured.
Three more battalions were raised, and artillery batteries were formed.
Three other serving officials confirmed the assessment.
Three people died and more than 595 people were injured, including 115 police officers.
Three weeks later, Ayub Khan seized the presidency in a military coup, the first in the country's history.
Three weeks later, General Ayub ousted President Mirza when the situation between them escalated and sent him into exile.
Three years into its existence, MQM won the November 1987 local body elections in Karachi and Hyderabad and had several mayors win unopposed.
Three years later, rifts developed within the Conference owing to political, regional and ideological differences.
Through IJI, the conservative forces under Sharif had a chance to form a national government for the first time in the history of Pakistan.
Through Pakistani funding, Hekmatyar's forces sieged Kabul city with thousands of rockets for three years, killing thousands.
Through a Supreme Court judgement Sharif was restored and together with Bhutto ousted Khan from the presidency.
Through a general election where the leader of the majority winning party is selected to be the Prime Minister.
Through a spokesman, Bhutto said that the charges against her represented a witch hunt and compared them to McCarthyism.
Through him, Bhutto met his son Peter Galbraith, who became a lifelong friend.
Through several periods of military rule and constitutional suspensions, the court has also established itself as a de facto check on military power.
Through this ordinance, Ahmadi Muslims were deprived of most of their basic human rights and their freedom of faith.
Through this ordinance, unmitigated polygamy was abolished.
Throughout Pakistan's history, the military consistently maintained a dominant role over the civilian government, a trend that continued into the 2020s.
Throughout her first term, Bhutto was criticised for being indecisive and unable to maintain control.
Throughout her life, Bhutto never publicly acknowledged this internal family discord.
Throughout his life, Iqbal would prefer writing in Persian as he believed it allowed him to fully express philosophical concepts, and it gave him a wider audience.
Throughout the 1980s, the party's credibility was damaged by the United States who "keenly sabotaged" any of its efforts and organizational establishment in the dense areas of country.
Throughout the early 2000s the PML-Q saw minor successes in Sindh, but the province quickly came under the control of the PML(N) PPP and PTI again.
Throughout the night 5 July, the battle raged in close-quatres.
Throughout the period between 1950 and 1953, several major Pakistan political and military figures paid visits to the United States.
Throughout the time, the foundations were laid down to develop a military nuclear capability.
Thus disproving the IAF's claim of downing 73 PAF fighters, which at the time constituted nearly the entire Pakistani front-line fighter force.
Thus the total strength of the lower house reached to 237 members.
Thus, 1965 was a stalemate in terms of the air war with neither side able to achieve complete air superiority.
Thus, Azad Kashmir remains for all intents and purposes under Pakistan's strict control, exercising no real sovereignty of its own.
Thus, Jinnah's strategy was to "kill two birds with one stone", namely decapitate India by controlling Kashmir, and to find a domestic solution through foreign and military intervention.
Thus, Suvorova argued, Bhutto opposed the secularisation of Islamic societies.
Thus, he was the first civilian Chief Martial Law Administrator of the dismembered Pakistan.
Thus, the Punjabi landowners remained largely unrepentant of their desires to "[secure] their own hegemony" leading to the loss of the eastern province in 1971.
Thus, the Senate in Pakistan, over the years, has emerged as an essential organ and a stabilizing factor of the federation.
Thus, the alliance broke up in October 1989 and MQM joined hands with PPP's opponents.
Ties with the United States were renewed by Musharraf who endorsed the American invasion of Afghanistan in 2001.
Tightening the grip of martial law, the One Unit program was dissolved in West Pakistan, removing the "West" prefix from Pakistan, and a direct ballot replaced the principle of parity.
Tikka was a "soldier known for his eager use of force".
Till 9 December, the Pakistani commander Maj Gen Janjua perished but the Pakistani forces were able to force the Indian units to retreat by 11 December.
To a large extent the media enjoys freedom of expression in spite of political pressure and direct bans sometimes administered by political stake holders.
To a large extent the media enjoys freedom of expression.
To achieve its goal of self-determination for the people of Jammu and Kashmir the Jamaat e Islami's stated position was that the Kashmir issues be resolved through constitutional means and dialogue.
To address immediate needs, a pension scheme was introduced, offering Rs.
To address material shortages, Pakistan also turned to China for cooperation in establishing essential metal and material industries.
To aid victims of the 2001 Islamabad cloud burst, Khan auctioned his signed 1992 Cricket World Cup bat and match sweater; the bat alone fetched US$20,000.
To be a member of the electoral college, according to Article 62 of the Constitution, candidates must be citizens of Pakistan and not less than 25 years of age.
To be eligible for appointment, Lawyers must have ten years' experience as an advocate with good standing in the respective jurisdiction.
To break the impasse, Bhutto proposed the continuation of the One Unit program, with two separate prime ministers for governing the wings.
To come up with such a position, the League's Working Committee met for four days in February 1940 to set out terms of reference to a constitutional sub-committee.
To compound further matters, the Soviet Union had withdrawn from Afghanistan and the strategic importance of Pakistan to the United States was gone.
To end the fighting between PML-N and MQM, Nawaz's party passed a resolution to launch a paramilitary operation under command of Chief of Army Staff General Asif Nawaz Janjua.
To ensure a smooth transition, in 1972 the Simla Agreement was signed between India and Pakistan.
To forestall further unrest, on 20 December 1971, he handed over the presidency and government to Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, the ambitious leader of the (at that time) powerful and popular People's Party.
To further foster ties between the 2 countries, Brunei-Pakistan Friendship Association (BPFA) was created in 2008.
To gain knowledge of the law, he followed an established barrister and learned from what he did, as well as from studying lawbooks.
To implement this, Bhutto overturned the verdict of Mujib's earlier court-martial trial, in which Brigadier Rahimuddin Khan had sentenced him to death.
To journalists she remained unrepentant about her period in office, insisting that she had made no mistakes.
To keep the country united Bhutto launched a series of internal intelligence operations to crack down on fissiparous nationalist sentiments and movements in the provinces.
To offset the diplomatic setback caused by this unexpected cancellation of much-anticipated visit, Putin's sent his Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.
To overcome the Bengali domination and prevent formation of the central government in Islamabad, the controversial One Unit programme established the two wings of East and West Pakistan.
To preserve India's unity the British arranged the Cabinet Mission Plan.
To prevent protesters from reaching the Srinagar Highway, Red Zone (Islamabad) and entering the capital, hundreds of containers were given to the Islamabad Police and a ban was placed on gatherings.
To prevent volatile rumours, cellphone and internet services were blocked, and newspapers were also restricted in many parts of the region.
To quieten rumours of a fallout between Musharraf and Sharif, Sharif officially certified Musharraf's remaining two years of his term on 30 September.
To raise awareness of LGBTQ issues, author Eiynah published a children's book called My Chacha is Gay.
To resolve the crisis, the Admiral Ahsan Mission was formed to provide recommendations.
To the disliking of religious conservatives, Nawaz promised that the perpetrators of honour killings would be 'punished very severely'.
To this date, its relations with Bangladesh are determined by the Pakistan factor.
To this day, Pakistan has a close relationship with Turkey.
To this day, the INSC conference continues to be held in Pakistan, attracting thousands of scientists worldwide to interact with Pakistan's academic community.
To this day, the issue of committed atrocities and pogroms is an influential factor in the Bangladesh–Pakistan relations.
Today these are as applicable in actual life as these were 1300 years ago.
Today, Bangladesh is a sovereign and independent country.
Today, Jinnah rests in a large marble mausoleum, Mazar-e-Quaid, in Karachi.
Today, a small number of organisations exist in Pakistan to promote greater education about HIV/AIDS, including the Association for People Living With AIDS/HIV in Pakistan, which was created in 2006.
Today, there are over a hundred public and private radio stations due to more liberal media regulations.
Tokyo and Islamabad have had healthy relations with each other since the foundation of their diplomacy in 1952.
Too many stories of corruption stuck to her.
Towards the end of the same year, both the governments of Afghanistan and Pakistan drafted plans to talk to the Taliban.
Trade across direct routes has been curtailed formally, so the bulk of India–Pakistan trade is routed through Dubai in the Middle East.
Trade and bilateral relationship between the two countries can be largely regarded as being insignificant, and the diplomatic relationship as being largely symbolic.
Trade between Pakistan and Afghanistan is expected to reach $5 billion by 2015.
Trade between Pakistan and France is increasing and France has donated large funds to help Pakistan with its economic problems.
Traditionally the bulk of TV shows have been plays or soap operas, some of them critically acclaimed.
Traditionally, the government-owned Pakistan Television Corporation (PTV) has been the dominant media player in Pakistan.
Tragically, numerous transgender individuals in Pakistan have also faced horrific incidents of gang rape and murder.
Trained in covert and unconventional warfare, he is said to have joined the banned terror group, Lashkar-e-Taiba, after his dismissal from SSG and to have infiltrated Kashmir in September 2023.
Transgender people are treated differently, at least on paper, than gay, lesbian and bisexual people.
Translation: Even though in sweetness Hindi* [archaic name for Urdu, lit.
Trial must take place in a Court of Session with a Muslim judge presiding.
Trinidad is also home to a sizeable number of South Asian Muslims who draw links with Pakistan.
Troops surrounded Bhutto's residence, while Zardari tried to leave the country for Dubai, but was arrested and imprisoned, charged with money laundering and involvement in Murtaza's murder.
Trump's speech led to rise of anti-American sentiments in Pakistan and protests against Trump were held across the country.
Twelve people were arrested in the aftermath.
Twenty-one (21) women including 17 on reserved seats and 4 on general seats were elected as Senators who served for the term from 2003 to 2009.
Twenty-seven (27) federal ministers are serving at the different ministries of the Government of Pakistan, out of which three (3) women hold the position of federal ministers.
Two car bombs exploded in south Mumbai on 25 August 2003; one near the Gateway of India and the other at the Zaveri Bazaar, killing at least 48 and injuring 150 people.
Two conferences were organised in Beijing and Hong Kong to promote Chinese investment in Pakistan.
Two days after the 2018 elections, Michael Gahler, chief observer of the European Union Election Observation Mission to Pakistan, said the overall situation of the election was satisfactory.
Two days later, Nawaz returned from exile in London to Islamabad.
Two days later, on 18 April 2013, the Islamabad High Court ordered the arrest of Musharraf on charges relating to the 2007 arrests of judges.
Two identical letters found on both the terrorists claimed that the attack was done in retaliation for the deaths of thousands of Muslims during the Gujarat riots.
Two months later, Trump tweeted that he was starting to develop better relations with the Pakistani government.
Two months later, after steadily worsening relations with the Armed Forces, Nawaz was deposed by Musharraf and martial law was established throughout the country.
Two of the protesters were killed and 50 were injured during the violence.
Two of the provinces of British India, Punjab and Bengal, were divided along religious lines by the Radcliffe Commission.
Two other newspapers in Balochistan, Daily Balochistan Express and Daily Azadi, also reported harassment by security forces.
Two weeks later, Ayub Khan subsequently carried out the 1958 Pakistani coup d'etat and assumed the presidency.
Two weeks later, on 27 October 1958, Ayub Khan carried out his own coup d'état against Mirza.
Two weeks of talks between them followed, which resulted in no agreement.
Two years after World War II, the United Kingdom formally dissolved British India, dividing it into two new sovereign nations: the Union of India and Pakistan.
Two years later a retrial was ordered after it was ascertained that undue political bias was exerted on the judges.
Two years later, the measure passed, the first act sponsored by non-officials to pass the council and be enacted by the Viceroy.
Typically, a show-cause notice is issued, and if the response is unsatisfactory, membership may be terminated.
Tyrian became the subject of a legal dispute in 1997 when a California court ruled him her father after White filed a paternity suit.
U.S. "clearly distanced" itself from Pakistan after the United States troops withdraws Afghanistan in 2021, Imran Khan describing it as Afghans breaking "the shackles of slavery".
U.S. President George W. Bush encouraged the two leaders to unite in the war on terror during a trilateral meeting.
U.S.-based fast food chains such as Pizza Hut, KFC and McDonald's have established a presence in Pakistan.
UAE has been a major donor of economic assistance to Pakistan.
UN Women Executive Director, Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, hailed the Government of Pakistan's decision to pass the anti-rape and anti-honor killing bills.
UN documents also reveal the role of Arab and Pakistani support troops in the Taliban massacre campaigns.
UNAIDS official reports suggest that they are targeting night truck drivers who are known for having sex with younger men.
UNCR reports that the status of women in Pakistani-administered Kashmir is similar to that of women in Pakistan.
UNESCO and the Orascom subsidiary of Pakistan telco, Mobilink have been using mobile phones to educate women and improve their literacy skills since 4 July 2010.
UNMOGIP's functions were to investigate complaints of ceasefire violations and submit findings to each party and the U.N. Secretary-General.
US President Richard Nixon and his National Security Advisor Henry Kissinger feared Soviet expansion into South and Southeast Asia.
US Representative Gary Ackerman also said a large sum of US economic aid has not left the US as it spent on consulting fees and overhead cost.
US Secretary of State Dean Rusk well summed it up when he said, "Well if you are going to fight, go ahead and fight, but we're not going to pay for it".
US Senator John McCain travelled to Pakistan on 26 July 2016 to discuss counterterrorism efforts in the region.
US intelligence analysts say Al-Qaeda and Taliban operatives in Pakistani-administered Kashmir are helping terrorists trained in Afghanistan to infiltrate Indian-administered Kashmir.
US official and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons determined that Pakistani allegations of India using banned chemicals in its bombs were unfounded.
US officials believed that Al-Qaeda was helping organise a campaign of terror in Kashmir to provoke conflict between India and Pakistan.
USAID takes into account political as well as humanitarian dimensions in its decision making process.
Ukraine and Pakistan have been cooperating with each other in educational sector as well as cultural exchanges.
Ultimately he was freed after the United States made payments to the families of the slain Pakistanis, but the incident was emblematic of the volatile nature of American-Pakistani relations.
Ultimately, Musharraf assumed executive powers but did not obtain the office of the Prime minister.
Ultimately, Pakistan rejected Chinese offers of military aid, recognising that accepting it would only result in further alienating Pakistan internationally.
Ultimately, he had to call for elections.
Ultimately, the army's high command established the 9th, 16th, and 17th infantry divisions in 1966–68.
Ultimately, the university declined to award the honorary degree.
Unable to defend Dacca, the Pakistanis surrendered on 16 December 1971.
Unable to keep the substantial pressure on Mirza's Republic Party eventually led the Muslim League's successful demand for the resignation of Prime Minister Muhammad Ali on 12 September 1956.
Unaware of this, Shahida, after her mandatory 96-day period of waiting (iddat), remarried.
Under 1956 Constitution, Parliament was unicameral.
Under Article 10A of the constitution, it is also the state's duty to provide for the right of fair trial.
Under Article 50 of the Constitution, the Majlis-i-Shoora (Parliament) of Pakistan consists of the President and two Houses, to be known respectively as the National Assembly and the Senate.
Under Article 50 of the Constitution, the federal legislature is the bicameral Majlis-e-Shoora (Parliament), which comprises the President and the two Houses, the National Assembly and the Senate.
Under Ayub's presidency the country underwent a cultural shift when the pop music industry, the film industry and Pakistani drama became extremely popular during the 1960s.
Under Bhutto's guidance Musharraf intensified the ISI's liaison with Israel's Mossad.
Under Bhutto's leadership, the PPP was officially secular, as were the governments which she led.
Under Bhutto's leadership, the democratic socialists, leftists, and Marxist-communists gathered and united into one party platform for the first time in Pakistan's history.
Under Bhutto, Ahmed wrote, people from the wealthy feudal class dominated the PPP "both at the federal and provincial levels".
Under Bhutto, Pakistan would focus on the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, building closer ties with the Soviet bloc and the Soviet Union.
Under Coalition Support Funds (in the Pentagon budget), Pakistan received 26 Bell 412EP utility helicopters, along with related parts and maintenance, valued at US$235 million.
Under General Ayub Khan, Pakistan's space program was established, and the country launched its first uncrewed space mission by 1962.
Under Hassan's guidance and Bhutto's leadership, the PPP became part of the pro-democracy movement involving diverse political parties from all across Pakistan.
Under Mufti Mahmood during the 1960s the party "developed a strong presence" and base of support among the "intensely conservative countryside" of Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Under Nasir's leadership the ISI was also involved in supporting Chinese Muslims in Xinjiang Province, rebel Muslim groups in the Philippines, and some religious groups in Central Asia.
Under Pakistan Technical Assistance Programme (PTAP), Pakistan offers scholarships to the Libyan students.
Under Sharif's leadership, Pakistan became the seventh declared nuclear-weapon state, the first in the Muslim world.
Under a single Indian union, he feared for Muslims, who would suffer in many respects, especially concerning their existentially separate entity as Muslims.
Under an agreement facilitated by Saudi Arabia, Nawaz was placed in exile for the next 10 years, and agreed not to take part in politics in Pakistan for 21 years.
Under growing pressure—including from the U.S., a key ally—he reluctantly did so two weeks after the election.
Under him, Pakistan won their first Test in England in 28 years at Lord's in 1982.
Under him, the provincial government established a board to bring all laws in conformity with Islam.
Under his directive, major elements of the 1st Armored Division began mobilization on December 15, 1971.
Under his government, science infrastructure was slowly built but he continued inviting Muslim scientists and engineers from India to Pakistan, believing it essential for Pakistan's future progress.
Under his leadership, a team of legislators also drafted the first report of the Basic Principle Committee and work began on the second report.
Under his leadership, the nuclear program had become a vital part of Pakistan's economic policy.
Under his policies, the rock music bands gained a following in the country and many concerts were held each week.
Under intense media pressure, New Delhi complied with the hijackers' demand and freed Maulana Masood Azhar from his captivity in return for the freedom of the Indian passengers on the flight.
Under pressure by Bhutto, Mujib and his military government, General Khan ordered a military action in East Pakistan.
Under pressure by the PPP, President Yahya postponed the National Assembly session on 25 March which came as a shattering disillusionment to the AL and their supporters throughout East Pakistan.
Under pressure from President Reagan, General Zia finally lifted martial law in 1985, holding non-partisan elections and handpicking Muhammad Khan Junejo to be the new prime minister.
Under pressure, Kashmiri militant organisations made an offer for talks and negotiations with New Delhi, which India welcomed.
Under the 1973 Constitution the National Assembly is elected for five years term, unless sooner dissolved.
Under the 1973 Constitution, a member of Parliament may not hold the office of the prime minister more than twice.
Under the Constitution, elections to the 10 seats reserved for minority were held on separate electorate basis.
Under the Constitution, the Parliament may also legislate for two or more Provinces by consent and request made by those Provinces.
Under the Constitution, the Parliament may also legislate for two or more provinces by consent and request made by those provinces.
Under the LFO, the President was to decide when the National Assembly was to meet.
Under the Presidency of Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousef Raza Gilani, relations between Pakistan and Russia improved significantly.
Under the Qisas (eye-for-an-eye) law of Pakistan, the perpetrator could suffer the same fate as the victim, if the victim or the victim's guardian chooses.
Under the Transgender Person (Protection of Rights) Act 2018 (Urdu: مُتَجَنَّس افراد کے لیے (تحفظ حقوق) قانون 2018ء), Pakistanis may choose to self-identify as male, female, both or neither.
Under the close scrutiny of the Pakistan Armed Forces, an interim and transitional government was formed and new parliamentary election was held after three months.
Under the command of Lt Col YK Joshi, the battalion carried the operation out on 20 June and successfully captured the point after an intense close-quarters battle.
Under the government of Khawaja Nazimuddin, Pakistani and American officials developed positive attitudes towards one another.
Under the mainframe of the Supreme Judicial Council Article 209 an inquiry into the capacity or conduct of a Judge, who is a member of the council, may be conducted.
Under the memorandum of understanding, both nations agreed to fight terrorism together and also to share intelligence information.
Under the provisions of this ordinance, an Ahmadi Muslim could be given rigorous imprisonment of 3 years and fined any amount.
Under the reform project, the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court and the Peshawar High Court will be extended to the FATA region.
Under the terms of the American cancellation, the US kept both the money and the planes, leading to angry claims of theft by Pakistanis.
Under the terms of this judgement, the Government and the President's office were bound to act on the recommendations of the Chief Justice of Pakistan.
Under the watch of Lt Gen Harbaksh Singh, led by Brig.
Under this Constitution, Pakistan became an Islamic Republic, hence 23 March became the country's Republic day.
Under this Constitution, the National Assembly was not to be dissolved earlier than 14 August 1973.
Under this agreement, Bhutto recognized East Pakistan as Bangladesh.
Under this system, the first direct presidential election was held on 2 January 1965.
Unemployment had limited Pakistan's economic growth and Nawaz believed that only privatisation could solve this problem.
Unfortunately, Mukherjee died in detention on 23 June 1953, leading to an uproar in whole India and precipitating a crisis that went out of control.
Unfortunately, it is this class that is selfish and morally and intellectually corrupt.
Unless both the Houses pass a Bill, and it receives the President's assent it cannot become a law including in the case of a money bill which is the sole prerogative of the National Assembly.
Unlike Jinnah and other leaders of the Congress, Gandhi did not wear western-style clothing, did his best to use an Indian language instead of English, and was deeply rooted in Indian culture.
Unlike Nawaz Sharif's second democratic term, Benazir worked with the military on many issues where the military disagreement, solving many problems relating directly to civil-military relations.
Unlike his Indian counterpart Jawaharlal Nehru, under Khan Pakistan's economy was planned, but also an open free market economy.
Unlike other countries in South Asia, Pakistan army officer uniforms don't include a aiguillette, rather it is used mostly by aid-de-camps.
Unlike the Israeli attack on Arab airbases in 1967, which involved a large number of Israeli planes, Pakistan flew too few planes to inflict significant damage.
Unlike the National Assembly, the Senate cannot be dissolved by the President.
Unlike the National Assembly, the Senate is a continuing chamber and hence not subject to dissolution.
Unlike the earlier martial law, Musharraf was widely disapproved, inviting mass demonstrations led by Nawaz Sharif, Musharraf eventually resigned in an attempt to avoid impeachment in the Parliament.
Unlike the previous documents, the Constitution cannot be changed, instead constitutional amendments are passed; altering its effect.
Unnamed sources say his name and SSG background were revealed during the interrogation of Over Ground Workers (OGWs) who supported the perpetrators.
Unresolved issues continue to pose challenges for both countries.
Until 1958, Gwadar was part of Oman but was transferred to Pakistan in that year after being sold.
Until 1965, it was thought that divisions could function effectively while getting orders directly from the army's GHQ.
Until 1990, Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) was the only major party of Pakistan.
Until 2013, Pakistan did not experience a democratic transfer of power from one democratically elected government that had completed its tenure to another.
Until a final ruling is rendered, the provisions of the Act will remain in effect.
Until the enactment of the Government of India Act 1935 in 1935 that created the Federal Court, these new high courts had the distinctionary powers of being the highest Courts for all cases.
Until the mid-19th century, it was unclear whether naturalisation rules in the United Kingdom were applicable in other parts of the Empire.
Untrained in guerrilla warfare, the Pakistani high command in the east collapsed under commanders General Amir Niazi and Admiral Muhammad Sharif.
Upon arriving at the ministry, the ambassador cried due to his grief in front of Chinese diplomats.
Upon assuming office, Nawaz launched the Public Sector Development Programme (PSDP) which constructed major projects to stimulate the economy.
Upon compliance with these conditions, a plebiscite was to be held to determine the future of the territory.
Upon finishing his studies, he served as a lecturer in international law at the University of Southampton in 1952, and he was called to the bar at Lincoln's Inn in 1953.
Upon gaining independence, Pakistan inherited a strong bureaucracy and army from the British Raj.
Upon hearing of the man's religious infidelity, a tribal council told the pair to leave the area or face death.
Upon hearing the ultimatum, the East-Pakistan government collapsed when the Lt-Gen. A.A.K.
Upon his arrival, Rahman met with Bhutto and both agreed to form a coalition government with Rahman as premier and Bhutto as president, but Sheikh Mujib later ruled out such a possibility.
Upon his death, Khan was given the honorific title of Shaheed-e-Millat ("Martyr of the Nation").
Upon his return to India, he enrolled at the Bombay High Court, and took an interest in national politics, which eventually replaced his legal practice.
Upon meeting with Sharif, General Tariq Pervez had ultimately warned Sharif of "making any move against General Musharraf or the army would strike.
Upon release, Bhutto toured the country, addressing adulatory crowds of PPP supporters.
Upon returning from the quick visit in the United States in 1971, President Bhutto forcefully dishonourably discharge seven senior army generals, which he called the "army waderas" (lit.
Upon returning in the 1980s, Musharraf took an interest in the emerging Pakistani rock music genre, and often listened to rock music after leaving duty.
Upon the Governor General Lord Mountbatten's insistence, India required the Maharaja to accede before it could send troops.
Upon the creation of Pakistan and departure of the British Crown in 1947, the All-India Muslim League (AIML) became the Muslim League, which was now led by Prime Minister Liaquat Ali Khan.
Upon the publication of Asrar-i-Khudi, Iqbal was honored with a British knighthood.
Upper and middle-class women in towns wear burqas over their normal clothes in public.
Urool Iqbal had been living alone at the time of her murder and had only recently filed a complaint against her husband with the police.
Using Gwadar Port instead would reduce the distance and possibly the cost.
Using Pakistan Air Force's Brigadier-General Władysław Turowicz, Bhutto initiated military and economic links between Pakistan and Poland.
Using draconian laws the government has also banned or officially silenced popular television channels.
Using oppressive laws the government has also banned or officially silenced popular television channels.
Using the newly acquired sophisticated weapons through the American arms aid, Pakistan believed that it could achieve tactical victories in a quick limited war.
Using these laws, Ayub Khan nationalised large parts of the press and took over one of the two largest news agencies.
Usually officers who join the civil services are of the rank of Captain / Lieutenant / Flight Lieutenant (equivalent to BPS-17 grade).
Usually, the leader of the majority party in the parliament retains the office of prime minister, and forms the government either by coalition or by simple majority.
Vajpayee responded, saying: "It is Pakistan which is flouting the United Nations resolution by not withdrawing its forces from Kashmir ... You people create problems every time.
Vajpayee sent a "secret letter" to U.S. President Bill Clinton that if Pakistani infiltrators did not withdraw from the Indian territory, "we will get them out, one way or the other".
Vani is a marriage custom followed in tribal areas and the Punjab province.
Various American, European, Asian TV channels, and movies are available to a majority of the population via Cable TV.
Various members of the PPP old guard, including Mumtaz Ali Bhutto, left the party in frustration at the pro-capitalist direction she had taken.
Vice-Admiral Patrick Simpson, commander of Southern Naval Command, began to launch the series of operation with also applying the naval blockage.
Victory is, by the Grace of Allah, ours.
Violence against the LGBTQ community raised a lot after this controversial incident.
Violence against women is an important social issue in Pakistan.
Violence erupted in Karachi in 1992 and brought the economy to a halt.
Violence in Pakistan and the Taliban conflict with the government have heightened humanitarian problems in Pakistan.
Violence in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa escalated in the late 2000s amid fighting between militants and Pakistani forces backed by the U.S.
Violent activities in the region declined in 2004.
Violent disorder and chaos accompanied the Pakistan Army's systematic and deliberate campaign of killing and raping the populace of East Pakistan.
Virtually suspending the 1962 Constitution, President Khan instead issued the Legal Framework Order No.
Voting finally took place on 9 April, with Imran Khan losing the vote.
WAF staged public protests and campaigns against the Hudood Ordinances, the Law of Evidence, and the Qisas and Diyat laws (temporarily shelved as a result).
Wali Khan was again jailed, and his party was barred from politics when the Supreme Court upheld the finding of President Bhutto that the NAP was conspiring against the state of Pakistan.
Wali Khan was released, joined the National Democratic Party, and ultimately formed the Awami National Party.
Wali Khan, the influential Pashtun and Soviet-backed leader, was elected as its first president and Sindhi socialist Rasul Bux Palejo was appointed its first secretary general.
Walter Cawthorn was the first head of the ISI.
Wanting a capable administrator, Bhutto sought Lieutenant-General Rahimuddin Khan to chair the commission, which Rahimuddin declined, in 1971.
Wanting a controlled democracy, President Mirza dismissed four prime ministers in less than two years and his, position in the country was quickly deteriorated amid his actions.
Wary of Soviet expansion, Pakistan had strong relations with both the United States of America and the People's Republic of China during much of the Cold War.
Waseem said he was cultivated by the establishment as an alternative force, with the PTI functioning as a "shadow" Muslim League to attract electables before the 2018 election.
Waseem said that he appealed to middle-class demands to end dynastic politics and came to power not through mass mobilisation, but military support.
Washington has been accused deserting Pakistan in favour of a policy that favours stronger relations with India, while Pakistan sees China as a more reliable ally over the long term.
Water is cited as one possible cause for a conflict between the two nations, but to date issues such as the Nimoo Bazgo Project have been resolved through diplomacy.
Watta satta is a tribal custom in which brides are traded between two clans.
Watta satta is most common in rural parts of northwest and west Pakistan, and its tribal regions.
Watta-Satta marriage in Pakistan provoke low, domestic violence and often exceed the cause and end up in Karo-Kari cases, especially in Sindh.
Wavell attempted to save the situation by flying leaders such as Jinnah, Liaquat, and Jawaharlal Nehru to London in December 1946.
Wavell cut the conference short in mid-July without further seeking an agreement; with a British general election imminent, Churchill's government did not feel it could proceed.
Wavell returned to India in September after consultation with his new masters in London; elections, both for the centre and for the provinces, were announced soon after.
Waziristan had by then become the new battlefield for Kashmiri militants fighting NATO in support of Al-Qaeda.
We are friends of Russia, and we are also friends of the United States.
We are going ahead without being deterred by the incidents happening there.
We are holding talks on supplying the helicopters," head of state-owned Rostec, Sergei Chemezov said, adding that the negotiations were about Russian Mi-35 Hind attack helicopters.
We are not stealing what they (illegally) stole in the past (as referring the nuclear weapon designs) but we're taking a small machine which is not useful for making the atomic bomb but for a fuel".
We are the inheritors of these glorious traditions and are fully alive to our responsibilities and obligations as framers of the future constitution of Pakistan.
We cannot afford to be distracted in fulfilling our national objectives.
We created women's studies programs in universities.
We hail the people of Bangladesh in their hour of triumph.
We have earned bounties totaling millions of dollars.
We have made terrible mistakes and Pakistan is in a mess—— the worst crisis in our history.
We have no aggressive designs against any one.
We have no other choice," observing India's progress toward developing the bomb.
We just need to incite them," Musharraf told a TV channel.
We must accept the fact that, as a people, we had also contributed to the bifurcation of our own country.
We must know where we deceived ourselves to avoid being deceived again.... Russia is one of our closest neighbors... And (could) be an important partner.
We must therefore, place our people at the centre of the SAARC processes.
We recognize those contributions and those sacrifices, but Pakistan has also sheltered the same organizations that try every single day to kill our people", Trump said.
We shall fight to the last to free our motherland.
We want to live peacefully and maintain cordial and friendly relations with our immediate neighbours and with (the) world at large.
We will extend every help to Pakistan so that it can eliminate terror from its soil.
We've captured 689 and handed over 369 to the United States.
Web news channels also appeared from mostly after 2010.
Websites such as YouTube and many others were in the past blocked by the government for violating blasphemy laws.
Weeks later Sharif was forced to relinquish office by the military leadership.
Weeks later, parliament was suspended by a military coup and Legal Framework Order, 2002 (2002 LFO) returned the country to a semi-presidential system for another decade.
Well before the conflict began, however, Britain and the United States had suspected Pakistan of joining both alliances out of opportunism to acquire advanced weapons for a war against India.
Well known Pakistani sportsperson-politician Imran Khan (now the Prime minister) had condemned the forced conversions threat as un-Islamic.
West Pakistan politicians generally felt that the proposed six-point programme was a step towards East Pakistan's full secession.
West Pakistan, now just Pakistan, secured the release of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman from the Headquarter Prison and allowed him to return to Dacca.
West Pakistanis believed that Bengalis were not "martially inclined", unlike Pashtuns and Punjabis; Bengalis dismissed the "martial races" notion as ridiculous and humiliating.
West Pakistanis were substantially more supportive than East Pakistanis of an Islamic state, a tendency that persisted after 1971.
West Pakistanis' opposition to these efforts made it difficult to effectively govern both wings.
West Pakistanis, in an attempt to "Islamise" the East, wanted the Bengalis to adopt Urdu.
Western experts considered Bhutto's policy astute in addressing the border question, increasing pressure on Afghanistan and likely contributing to the Afghan government's move towards accommodation.
Western officials have claimed nearly 70%( roughly $3.4 billion) of the aid given to the Pakistani military has been misspent in 2002–2007.
What prompted this shift was the military's experience during the two past confrontations with India.
When Americans lost in Vietnam, Americans went home and cried.
When Bhutto began testifying on 25 January 1978, Chief Justice Maulvi Mushtaq, presiding over the trial, closed the courtroom to observers.
When Bhutto returned to the country and in spite of the agreement was about to sign with the PNA.
When Bhutto tried to attend her brother's funeral in Larkana, local Murtaza supporters pelted her car with rocks.
When Bhutto was five, her father became the cabinet minister for energy, and when she was nine he became the country's foreign minister.
When Carter was elected in 1976, he declared in his inaugural speech his intent to pursue a nuclear weapons ban.
When General Douglas Gracey was appointed the commander in chief of the Pakistan Army, Liaquat Ali Khan ordered the independent units of the Pakistan Army to intervene in the conflict.
When I became fit to serve thee, thou hast departed.
When I was young, I heard many touching stories about Pakistan and the friendship between our two countries.
When India tested its nuclear weapons the second time, it caused a great alarm in Pakistan and pressure mounted on Nawaz.
When Jinnah died of tuberculosis in 1948, Islamic scholar Maulana Shabbir Ahmad Usmani described Jinnah as the greatest Muslim after the Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb.
When Jinnah died, he had held three major positions: Governor-General; President of Muslim League; and the Constituent Assembly of which he served both its president and legal adviser.
When Jinnah urged Dina to marry a Muslim, she reminded him that he had married a woman not raised in his faith.
When Kashmir Liberation Front militant Maqbool Bhat was executed in February 1984, strikes and protests by Kashmiri nationalists broke out in the region.
When Musharraf came to power in 1999, he promised that the corruption in the government bureaucracy would be cleaned up.
When PML-N leader Shahbaz Sharif was elected prime minister, President Arif Alvi had to take oath from him.
When Pervez Musharraf was returning from his visit to Colombo his flight was denied landing permissions at Karachi International Airport on orders from the Prime Minister's office.
When Western countries suspended foreign aid, Nawaz froze the country's foreign currency reserves and economic conditions worsened.
When Yahya became the C-in-C, he superseded two of his seniors: Lieutenant-General Altaf Qadir and Lieutenant-General Bakhtiar Rana.
When Zhou died in 1976, then-Pakistani Ambassador to China rushed to the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs at 8 in the morning without appointment.
When Zia visited Washington D.C. in December 1982, they raised the issue of Bhutto's imprisonment with him.
When a Chinese court accepted to hear a case regarding the issue of same-sex marriage, the news story received substantial international coverage.
When allegations were leveled against the US by Pakistani historians and scholars, American officials reacted angrily and held Bhutto responsible for his act.
When another woman attempted to prevent the soldiers from attacking her two daughters, she was beaten.
When his wife was assassinated in December 2007, he became the leader of the Pakistan People's Party.
When it comes to marital abuse, pregnant women are even victims.
When many of the same leaders met in Dacca in December of that year to form the All-India Muslim League to advocate for their community's interests, Jinnah was again opposed.
When no agreement was reached, President Khan appointed Bengali anti-war activist Nurul Amin as prime minister with the additional office of the country's first and only vice-president.
When residing in the United Kingdom, Pakistani citizens are eligible to vote in UK elections and serve in public office there.
When she gave birth to Bakhtawar, she became the first elected head of government to give birth while in office.
When she was able, Bhutto visited her father in prison.
When she was thirteen, he resigned from the government and a year later established his own political party, the Pakistan People's Party (PPP).
When the Carter administration discovered Bhutto's nuclear programme, it had already reached an advanced stage and had a disastrous effect on SALT I Treaty which was soon to collapse.
When the Congress leadership were released from prison in June 1945, they repudiated the agreement and censured Desai for acting without proper authority.
When the Government asked the Muslim League to send five nominees for representation in the interim government, Khan was asked to lead the League group in the cabinet.
When the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan was toppled and the new Afghan government was formed, President Hamid Karzai began repeating the previous Taliban statement.
When the Kargil conflict started just a year after the nuclear tests, many nations desired to end it before it intensified.
When the PML–Q began to decline in the aftermath of Musharraf's presidency, much of its centrist voter bank was lost to the PTI.
When the Soviets got kicked out of Egypt, Soviets decided to go after Libya.
When the United Kingdom announced the Partition of British India into India and Pakistan, he was one of the most senior serving officers in the British Indian Army who opted for Pakistan in 1947.
When the certiorari petitions are granted by the Supreme Court, the case is then set for the oral arguments, issuing orders to advocates of concerning parties in the case of importance.
When the decision was announced, it sparked fury in the conservative PML(N) but was welcomed by many of its political opponents.
When the elderly Shah Nawaz died in 1957, Zulfikar inherited the family's land holdings, making him extremely wealthy.
When the history of our country is written by objective historians, your name will be placed even before that of Mr. Jinnah....
When the local CIA station chief briefed President Ayub on the incident, Ayub shrugged his shoulders and said that he had expected this would happen at some point.
When the public was informed, public reactions were mixed.
When the respondents were asked whether "Men are better politicians as compared to women or not"; 67% agree men are better politicians while 33% think otherwise.
When the system resumed, the updated accounts were found to be greatly inconsistent with the previous ones.
When the twenty-eighth session of the League met in Madras (now Chennai) on 12 April 1941, Jinnah told party members that the ultimate aim was to obtain Pakistan.
When the war started, China reproached India for its direct involvement and infiltration in East Pakistan.
When these activities were exposed in 1960 after a U-2 flying out of the air station was shot down and its pilot captured by the USSR, President Ayub was in the United Kingdom on a state visit.
When these attacks are reported they are written off as mistakes or suicides at times.
When this news reached Bhutto, she responded by high-alerting the Air Force Strategic Command.
When this news reached Pakistan, a shocked Sharif called a Defence Committee of the Cabinet meeting in Islamabad and vowed that "she [Pakistan] would give a suitable reply to the Indians...".
When this was failed to be comprehended by the pilot, the CAA was ordered to close the runways by turning off the edge lights at the Jinnah International Airport in an attempt to refuse the landing.
Where he was received warmly by Defence Minister Anatoly Serdyukov and Russian Ground Forces Commander-in-Chief (C-in-C) Colonel General Vladimir Chirkin.
Where it did field candidates, it struggled to surpass the 5% vote benchmark in 18 constituencies.
Whereas marriage to the Quran is disapproved by "textual Islam," the regionally "practiced Islam" may even add a religious coverage.
Whereas the Pakistani ambassador to Sweden is accredited as a non-residential ambassador to Latvia.
Whereas the judiciary used to defer to the Pakistani military, which is a dominant actor in Pakistan's politics, the judiciary has increasingly competed with and confronted the military.
Whereas, MQM Haqiqi failed to gain any seats at federal or provincial level.
Whichever member of the National assembly is chosen serves as the prime minister until the next election or until he fails to maintain the confidence of the National Assembly.
While Abdul Qadeer Khan remained popular in the country, Musharraf could not withstand the political pressure and his presidency was further weakened.
While Commonwealth citizens have a separate status within Pakistani nationality law, they are not distinguished from non-Commonwealth foreign nationals for other purposes, including immigration.
While India had pursued a policy of nominal non-alignment, Pakistan was a member of both CENTO and SEATO and an ally of the West in its struggle against communism.
While Iqbal espoused the idea of Muslim-majority provinces in 1930, Jinnah would continue to hold talks with the Congress through the decade and only officially embraced the goal of Pakistan in 1940.
While Iqbal was in Heidelberg in 1907, his German professor Emma Wegenast taught him about Goethe's Faust, Heine and Nietzsche.
While PML-N retained its position in central Punjab it faced major setbacks in southern and northern Punjab.
While Pakistan and Tonga maintain diplomatic relationships, they do not have diplomatic missions in each other's country.
While Pakistan has addressed a "third" gender when identifying transgender people, Sid believes more can be done.
While Pakistan's government strives for an Islamic state, Bangladesh was established secular.
While Pakistani authorities had previously honored US-issued protection letters, reports indicated police increasingly ignored them.
While about 170,000 Biharis have since been repatriated to Pakistan, more than 400,000 "stranded Pakistanis" remain resident in Bangladesh.
While an opposition leader in Pakistan did call for war, leaders in both India and Pakistan did urge calm to avert disaster.
While at the Multan meeting, scientists wondered why the President, who had much on his hands in those trying days, was paying so much attention to scientists and engineers in the nuclear field.
While both nations have held a shaky cease-fire agreement since 2003, they continue to trade fire across the disputed area.
While delivering a speech in the Company Bagh of Rawalpindi, Khan was shot dead by an Afghan militant Said Akbar for unknown reasons.
While dividing his time between law practice and poetry, Iqbal remained active in the Muslim League.
While her Western supporters sometimes had doubts about her ability to govern, they generally viewed her as a progressive figure who could advance democracy and counter-terrorism in Pakistan.
While her cavalcade was making its way through a crowd in Karachi, two bombs exploded, killing 149 and injuring 402.
While his legacy is contested, Bhutto is hailed for his accomplishments.
While his nationalisation of Sindh-based industries benefited the poor, it caused discontent among influential feudal lords.
While his party welcomed the vote, he pledged to release a white paper on alleged rigging and announced plans for protests.
While in Dubai, she also focused on raising her children and caring for her mother, whose Alzheimer's disease had progressed to a severe stage.
While in Iran, Khan spoke with the Soviet Ambassador.
While in Lahore he was a friend of Abdul Sattar Ranjoor.
While in Simla, she attracted much attention from both local and national Indian press, the first time she received such notice.
While in exile, Benazir became a rallying point for the PPP.
While in the Army he earned the nickname "Cowboy" for his westernised ways and his fashion interest in Western clothing.
While initially ambivalent towards the idea of a Communist country on its borders, Pakistan hoped that China would serve as a counterweight to Indian influence.
While initially ambivalent towards the idea of a Communist country on its borders, Pakistan hoped that the PRC would be a reliable friend.
While internationally acclaimed, his policies were condemned by the PPP.
While it does not have mentionable shares in Sindh, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan Assembly.
While lauded for his nationalism, he faced criticism for suppressing political opponents.
While leading a massive rally of supporters, two suicide attacks were carried out in an attempt to assassinate her.
While maintaining a role in the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization and the Central Treaty Organization, Bhutto asserted an independent foreign policy for Pakistan, free from U.S. influence.
While not ruling out war, Prime Minister Nehru and Sardar Patel invited Liaquat Ali Khan for talks in Delhi.
While on a trip to Delhi in 2002, US Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld suggested that Al-Qaeda was active in Kashmir, though he did not have any hard evidence.
While on other hand, the Peoples Party claimed the exclusive mandate in Gilgit-Baltistan and Kashmir.
While privatising industry, Nawaz took steps for intense government control of science in Pakistan, and placed projects under his authorisation.
While recognising the Committee System, the committees have been empowered to go into all matters of the ministry.
While some journalists practice self-censorship, a wide range of privately owned daily and weekly newspapers and magazines provide diverse and critical coverage of national affairs.
While supported by the majority, the USSR vetoed the resolution twice.
While supportive of the army's actions and working to rally international support, Bhutto distanced himself from the Yahya Khan regime and began to criticise Yahya Khan for mishandling the situation.
While the Awami League had won enough seats to form a government without the need for any coalition, West Pakistani elites refused to hand over power to the East Pakistani party.
While the exact nature of the proposed settlement was never made public, Ayub Khan would go on to write in his autobiography that the proposal was "absurd".
While the investigations into his corruption were therefore politically motivated, there also was significant evidence of his guilt in this regard.
While the meeting marked a diplomatic opening, experts emphasized that structural challenges and regional pressures continued to limit deeper alignment with Washington.
While the term is commonly used in South Asia, it is considered derogatory in Urdu and the term khawaja sara (خواجہ سرا) is used instead.
While the total number has never been made public, experts estimate around 10,000 officers and staff, which does not include informants or assets.
While, 168 seats for the provincial assemblies i.e.
Whilst India enjoyed excellent relations with Bangladesh during the Awami League tenures, relations deteriorated when the Bangladesh Nationalist Party assumed power.
Whilst he was aware of the acute grievances of East Pakistan, he did try to address the situation.
Whilst, Air Chief Marshal Farooq Feroze Khan was appointed chairman Joint Chiefs who was the first (and to date only) Pakistani air officer to have reached to such 4 stars assignment.
White became pregnant after a final encounter in 1991 and gave birth to a daughter, Tyrian Jade, in June 1992.
Why should not the Muslims of North-West India and Bengal be considered as nations entitled to self-determination just as other nations in India and outside India are.
Widespread international criticism brought Pakistan's reputation to a low since the Indo-Pakistani war of 1971.
William's revelations came as a shock to Bhutto, who was unaware of how advanced Pakistan's nuclear development had become.
Wishing to stop the influx of Pakistani forces into the Uri-Poonch bulge, COAS Jayanto Nath Chaudhuri commanded the XV Corps under Lt Gen K. S. Katoch to advance and take over Haji Pir pass.
With 20 percent representation in each house of the Parliament, women parliamentarians contributed 33 percent of parliamentary business (2018–19).
With Ayub becoming the army chief, it marked a change in the military tradition of preferring native Pakistanis and ending the transitional role of British Army officers.
With Aziz appointed as Prime minister, Musharraf transferred all executive powers to Aziz as he trusted Shaukat Aziz.
With Benazir Bhutto elevated to the post Prime Minister of Pakistan, the IDA nominated Abdul Wali Khan as a compromise candidate for opposition leader in the state parliament.
With Bhutto as foreign minister and prime minister, Pakistan and Iran formed a special relationship, as Iran provided military assistance.
With Bhutto assuming control, the leftists and democratic socialists entered the country's politics and later emerged as power players in the country's politics.
With Carter's election, Bhutto lost all the links to United States administration that he had through President Nixon.
With Carter's election, Bhutto lost the connections to the United States administration that he had enjoyed during Nixon's term.
With India assisting the Mukti Bahini, war broke out between the separatist supporters in Bangladesh and Pakistan (Indo-Pakistani War of 1971).
With India intervening in East Pakistan and Pakistan conceding defeat to end the war led to the collapse of the presidential system in 1971.
With India successfully intervening in the conflict, the Pakistan military surrendered to the Indian military and almost 93,000 military personnel were taken as prisoners of war on 16 December 1971.
With India's "abridged authority" in Kashmir, Nehru decided that a settlement must be found.
With Nawaz Sharif exiled to Saudi Arabia, the party's presidency was handed over to Javed Hashmi, and the party began to reassert itself in the coming elections.
With Obama coming into office, the U.S. is expected to triple non-military aid to Pakistan to $1.5 billion per year over 10 years, and to tie military aid to progress in the fight against militants.
With Sharif placing the onus of the Kargil attacks squarely on the army chief Pervez Musharraf, there was an atmosphere of uneasiness between the two.
With Soviet technical assistance the country's first steel mill was established in Karachi, which proved to be a crucial step in industrialising the economy.
With U.S. military assistance suspended in 2018 and civilian aid reduced to about $300 million for 2022, Pakistani authorities have turned to other countries for help.
With US aid she imposed the Seventh Five-Year Plan to restore and centralise the national economy.
With US assistance, in the largest covert operation in history, Pakistan armed and supplied anti-Soviet fighters in Afghanistan.
With Zafarullah Jamali becoming the Prime Minister in 2002, he left the office for Shaukat Aziz in 2004.
With a major presence already in Vietnam, Johnson ended the traditional American division of South Asia into 'allies' and 'neutrals'.
With a majority in parliament, Nawaz reverted the semi-presidential system in favour of a more parliamentary system.
With a maximum membership of 96, provincial legislatures elect 23 each, using single transferable vote; with four representing the federal capital.
With a supermajority, Nawaz's new government amended the constitution to restrict the powers of the president to dismiss governments.
With both armies mobilising on either side of the border, there were growing fears that tensions over Kashmir could result in a nuclear war between Pakistan and India.
With domestic violence cases, it is important to acknowledge that marital rape is not considered a crime.
With exception to money bills, however, both houses work together to carry out the basic work of the Parliament, i.e.
With exception to money bills, however, both the houses work together to carry out the basic work of the Parliament, i.e.
With extensive efforts led by Abdus Salam, Khan had personally approved the KANUPP-I commercial plant, against the wishes of his own military government.
With few exceptions, all individuals born in the country are automatically citizens at birth.
With growing tensions between him and President Khan, in April 1993 the latter used the Eighth Amendment to dismiss Sharif as prime minister, citing corruption and misadministration.
With its accession to India, Kashmir became legally Indian territory, and the British officers could not a play any role in an inter-Dominion war.
With no party gaining a majority, a coalition was formed with the PML(Q) – a breakaway of the PML(N) and a pro-Musharraf party – leading with MQM.
With rapidly growing inflation and higher taxes, there was growing discontent over Pakistan's economic situation.
With special powers granted to President GI Khan, he dismissed two elected governms ent durithe ng periof od 1990 and 1993; he too was forced out from the office the same year.
With tactically vital features and well-prepared defensive posts atop the peaks, a defender on the high ground would enjoy advantages akin to that of a fortress.
With the PPP's assumption of power, democratic socialists and visionaries had authority for the first time in the country's history.
With the Socialist Party, the Muslim League struggled for its survival while facing the Republican Party and Awami League.
With the U.S.-led War in Afghanistan, there is a general sentiment in Pakistan to adopt a foreign policy which favours China over the United States.
With the assistance of the United Nations (UN) the war was ended but it became the Kashmir dispute, unresolved as of 2023[update].
With the backing of the army, Nawaz secured a landslide victory in the 1985 elections.
With the completion of the APTTA, the United States and other NATO states are planning to revive the ancient Silk Road.
With the exception of a few, most of the Muslim-majority princely-states acceded to Pakistan while most of the Hindu-majority princely states joined India.
With the growing influence of the USSR in the region, Pakistan cemented close security relations with China in Asia and United Kingdom and Germany in Europe during most of the Cold War.
With the independence of Pakistan in 1947, the term 'Central Superior Services' was used in Pakistan, and the concept of All-Pakistan Services continued.
With the independence of the Dominions, the British Paramountcy over the princely states came to an end.
With the martial law reming ned effective from 1977 till 1988, civil servant Ghulam Ishaq Khan ran for the presidency on a PPP ticket in a deal to support Benazir Bhutto for presidency.
With the passing of the 14th amendment, Nawaz emerged as the most powerful elected prime minister in the country.
With the population in revolt in October 1947, aided by Pakistani irregulars, the maharaja acceded to India; Indian troops were airlifted in.
With the promulgation of the first constitution, Pakistan became an Islamic republic in 1956, and the governor-general was replaced with the presidency.
With these amendments, Nawaz became the country's strongest freely elected prime minister.
With these elections, PTI became the first political party in Pakistan to conduct the largest intra-party election based on the general electoral base.
With this increase in tension, foreign personnel were evacuated over fears of violence.
With this status, Pakistan is seventh in world, second in South Asia and the only country in the Islamic World.
With thousands more being killed since then as the violence has only gotten much worse.
Within 20 months, tales of bad governance and corruption plagued the Pakistan People’s Party's government.
Within Pakistan, there was also public speculation that the attack might have been masterminded by India or the United States.
Within Punjab, Nawaz privatised government-owned industries and presented development-oriented budgets to the military government.
Within a few days of Pakistan's creation Jinnah's name was read in the sermon at mosques as Amir ul-Millat, a traditional title of Muslim rulers.
Within a few months of the agreement, differences surfaced and MQM ministers in the Sindh Cabinet resigned because the agreement was not implemented.
Within a short span of time, the Military Police had control of the state and its commanding officer submitted the report of their course of action to Major General Iskander Mirza in 1954.
Within days, Karachi hospitals showed significant improvement, and the medical services took on a new outlook.
Within hours of Yahya Khan stepping down, President Bhutto reversed the Judge Advocate General Branch's verdict against Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and instead released him, allowing him to fly to London.
Within months of Bhutto's election, dissolution had set in among her liberal supporters.
Within the Islamic world, Bhutto was often regarded as "a genuine Muslim political leader" and recognised as the head of Pakistan's most popular political party.
Within the dowry system, abuse is likely to occur after the marriage has taken place.
Within two months Chundrigar was dismissed.
Within two weeks President Mirza attempted to dismiss Khan, but the move backfired and President Mirza was relieved of the presidency and exiled to London.
Within two years, Jamali proved to be an ineffective prime minister as he forcefully implemented his policies in the country and caused problems with the business class elites.
Within weeks Ayub Khan lost the momentum in West Pakistan and his image was damaged in public circles.
Without demanding an explanation, he ordered the Military Police to immediately expel the Iraqi Ambassador and his staff as persona non grata on the first available flight.
Without government interference, the commission performs its functions and conduct of nationwide general elections, as well as for the by-elections decided by the Election Commission itself.
Without it, our demands are not going to be accepted.
Witness Syed Sharifuddin Pirzada stated in court that Jinnah converted to Sunni Islam in 1901 when his sisters married Sunnis.
Witnessing the events in 1965, the new drafted constitution created the Electoral College system, making the president as mere figurehead.
Wolpert wrote that the League election showing "appeared to prove the universal appeal of Pakistan among Muslims of the subcontinent".
Women (as well as men) carried posters bearing phrases such as 'Ghar ka Kaam, Sab ka Kaam', and 'Women are humans, not honour' became a rallying cry.
Women are also expected to marry a man of their parent's choice, follow Islam's code of dress and sacrifice their own dreams.
Women as equal citizen of Pakistan are free to contest general elections and to be elected to any public office at the national, provincial and local levels without any discrimination.
Women can serve in the Pakistan Armed Forces.
Women chair 2 out of 34 standing committees of the National assembly and 10 out of 50 Senate Committees.
Women have a low percentage of participation in society outside of the family.
Women have been part of the Pakistan Army since 1947, and from the army's inception to 2018 approximately 4,000 women served the army though most women were doctors and civilians.
Women in Pakistan have made significant contributions in the field of education.
Women in Pakistan have played an important role in Pakistani history and have had the right to vote since 1956.
Women in Pakistan make up 48.76% of the population according to the 2017 census of Pakistan.
Women in Pakistan wear dresses of comfort and beauty from ordinary days to festivals, each occasion has its own defined dress codes.
Women in elite urban districts of Pakistan enjoy a far more privileged lifestyle than those living in rural tribal areas.
Women in urbanized districts typically lead more elite lifestyles and have more opportunities for education.
Women lack ownership of productive resources.
Women parliamentarians have demonstrated strong presence in the legislative bodies.
Women were sometimes organized into large-scale public demonstrations.
Women's Parliamentary Caucus (WPC) is a non-partisan informal forum for women parliamentarians of Pakistan.
Women's demand equal rights for women in Pakistan.
Won two gold medals at Asian Games in 2010 and 2014.
Workers played a significant role in the protest and in some instances the protesters blocked the roads.
Worldwide, the best score was 90, the average score was 43, and the worst score was 8.
Written by Lord Macaulay, the then-named Indian Penal Code 1860, made male same-sex sexual acts illegal under the British law of "Unnatural Offences".
Written in moral and philosophical perspective, the First Report was lengthy and provided accounts that were unpalatable to be released to the public.
Xi was given a grand welcome upon his arrival at Noor Khan airbase, a 21-gun salute and guard of honour was presented to him.
Yahya Khan appointed Brigadier (later General) Rahimuddin Khan to preside over a special tribunal prosecuting Rahman with multiple charges.
Yahya Khan attempted to solve Pakistan's constitutional and inter-provincial rivalry problems once he took over power from Ayub Khan in March 1969.
Yahya Khan feared that an independent Bangladesh would lead to the disintegration of West Pakistan.
Yahya Khan has been widely portrayed as a ruthless uncompromising insensitive and grossly inept leader....
Yahya Khan served in World War II as a lieutenant and later captain in the 4th Infantry Division (India).
Yahya Khan was awarded HPk, HJ, SPk, NePl but then stripped of his service honours by the Zulfikar Ali Bhutto regime.
Yahya Khan was commissioned into the British Indian Army from the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun on 15 July 1939, his date of commission was later antedated to 28 August 1938.
Yahya Khan was placed under house arrest by the succeeding administration of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
Yahya Khan's dictatorship collapsed and gave way to Bhutto, who took the opportunity to rise to power.
Yahya Khan's funeral was marked by full military honors.
Yahya Khan, Chief Martial Law Administrator of Pakistan, held talks with both Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and Sheikh Mujibur Rehman.
Yahya Khan, the president of Pakistan, denied him a burial in East Pakistan.
Yahya also performed the duties of Chief of General Staff from 1957 to 1962 from where he went on to command two infantry divisions from 1962 to 1965.
Yahya and his military government promised to hold a general election within 2 years.
Yahya and his wife Fakhra had a son, Ali Yahya Khan, and a daughter, Yasmeen Khan.
Yahya became Pakistan Army's C-in-C on 27 October 1966 when General Mohammad Musa went on retirement.
Yahya became the highest-ranking official in what remained of Pakistan to be forced out due to the war.
Yahya is said to have had a relationship with Akleem Akhtar, nicknamed General Rani, but they never married.
Yahya kept Australian parrots, cranes and swans at the President’s House.
Yahya remained under house arrest until 1977, when he was released from custody by martial law administrator General Fazle Haq due to his failing health.
Yahya started a negotiating conference in Dhaka, presumably to reach a settlement between Bhutto and Mujib.
Yahya studied in the prestigious Colonel Brown Cambridge School in Dehradun and later enrolled at the University of the Punjab in Lahore, from where he graduated with a B.A.
Yahya's crackdown, however, had led to the Bangladesh Liberation War within Pakistan.
Yahya's father was originally from Peshawar.
Yahya's older brother Agha Muhammad Ali Khan had been the Chief of the Intelligence Bureau.
Yahya’s health had significantly deteriorated during his years in house arrest.
Yasmin Rashid stated that Nawaz had officially won the seat due to rigging committed by him, and had added 74,000 votes to his name in a form of major election manipulation.
Yet another goal may have been to boost the morale of the decade-long rebellion in Jammu and Kashmir by taking a proactive role.
Yet it zoomed into an ongoing dogfight between Sabres and Gnats, at supersonic speed, successfully broke off the fight and caused the Gnats to egress.
Yet the success of this approach is by no means clear, as both the government and society at large are not welcoming of foreign interference.
Yet, Pakistan continues to score poorly on the WPS Index in 2021, ranking 167th out of 170 countries, and has failed to make progress toward gender equality and women's rights.
You have seen what fires I have passed through.
You know the Kashmiri people themselves acceded to India.
You the [dwellers] of the West, should know that the world of God is not a shop (of yours).
Young men who are sex workers were shown in the video and they explained the difficulties of being gay in Pakistan.
Your civilization will commit suicide with its own daggers.
Your imagined pure gold is about to lose its standard value (as fixed by you).
Your services are indispensable for Pakistan.
Yousaf Raza Gillani of the PPP became Prime Minister and consolidated his power after ending a policy deadlock in order to lead the movement to impeach the president on 7 August 2008.
Yousef went on to play a role in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing in the U.S.
Yusuf Raza Gilani of the Pakistan Peoples Party had the longest consecutive term of 4 years and 86 days.
ZC Bakshi of the 68 Infantry Brigade, Indian forces captured the Haji Pir pass, 8 km into Pakistan administered Kashmir by 28 August.
Zafran Bibi stepped forward as a rape victim in Pakistan.
Zakat charitable donations became a 2.5% annual tax.
Zambia maintains a General Honorary Consulate in Islamabad, whereas Pakistan's embassy in Zimbabwe is also accredited as High Commission to Zambia.
Zardari and Nawaz sent a formal request for him to step down.
Zardari attempted to place Nawaz under house arrest, but the Punjab police left his residence after an angry crowd gathered outside.
Zardari feared that Chaudhry would undo all edicts instated by Musharraf including an amnesty that Zardari had received from corruption charges.
Zardari protested, admitting that he owned the property and that he should receive the proceeds of its sale.
Zardari was freed from prison after Bhutto returned to office in 1993.
Zardari's children were also present in the ceremony.
Zardari, hoping to preserve the coalition, told Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani to reject the resignations.
Zia bolstered the influence of the Islamic clergy and the Islamic parties, whilst conservative scholars became fixtures on television.
Zia himself stayed in power for 11 years until his death in a 1988 plane crash.
Zia loyalists and Islamic fundamentalists united to form a new political party, Islami Jamhoori Ittehad (IJI), which was funded by the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).
Zia ordered the arrest of senior PPP and PNA leaders but assured elections in October.
Zia promised new elections within 90 days but continuously postponed them, asserting that Bhutto's party wouldn't return to power if he participated.
Zia ul-Haq then replaced several members of the court, and the above-mentioned decision was reversed.
Zia's government allowed her to bring her brother's body to Pakistan in August, where it could be interred in the family cemetery at Larkana.
Zia's military administration effectively handled national security matters and managed multibillion-dollars of aid from the United States.
Zia's presidency oversaw the modern growth of far-right ideas in the country.
Zia's state-sponsored Islamization increased sectarian divisions in Pakistan between Sunnis and Shias due to his anti-Shia policies and also between Deobandis and Barelvis.
Zia-ul-Haq agreed to return the steel industry to Nawaz, who convinced the general to denationalise and deregulate industries to improve the economy.
Zia-ul-Haq committed himself to establishing an Islamic state and enforcing sharia law.
Zia-ul-Haq forged a strong alliance between the military and Deobandi institutions.
Zia-ul-Haq's Islamization that followed was resisted by Shia who saw it as "Sunnification" as the laws and regulations were based on Sunni fiqh.
Zia-ul-haq ordered the coup to take over the country.
Zina is the crime of non-marital sexual relations and adultery.
Zulfikar Ali Bhutto backed the plan, and Pakistan Army's SS Group was told to begin an operation, under codename Operation Gibraltar.
Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, maintaining some aspects of the prior military regime, called for elections for the national and provincial assemblies on 7 and 10 March 1977, respectively.
Zulfikar asked his friend John Kenneth Galbraith, an economics professor at Harvard who had formerly been a U.S. ambassador to India, to be her local guardian.
Zulfikar ruled Pakistan from 1971 until 1977, when he was overthrown and later hanged in 1979.
Zulfikar was the son of Shah Nawaz Bhutto, a prominent politician who had served as Prime Minister of the Junagadh State.
Zulfikar, too, was arrested, initially for less than a month.
Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto's Pakistan Peoples Party asserted itself even more.
Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, being shrewder in sensing the mood of the mass movement, had embarked upon the 'need for socialism' and other radical slogans.
[H]ence the debate on this [atomic] [i]ssue should come to an end [...] Since 1972, [P]akistan had progressed significantly, and we have left that [developmental] stage far behind.
[attribution needed] The unrest led to a standstill in bilateral relations.
[c] As of 2024, the parliament has a total strength of 432 with 336 members of the National Assembly (MNAs) and 96 senators.
[clarification needed] During the controversial 1965 presidential elections, Ayub Khan almost lost to Fatima Jinnah.
[clarification needed] Elections are held every three years for one half of the Senate and each Senator has a term of six years.
[contradictory] He attempted to convince Saudi Arabia to prevent Nawaz from returning until after the January 2008 elections.
[d] The absence of employment prospects coupled with high taxation drove the Poonchis to rebellion.
[f] He was part of the University of Oxford Blues Cricket team from 1973 to 1975.
[f] The Jammu & Kashmir National Conference volunteers aided the Indian Army in its campaign to drive out the Pathan invaders.
[failed verification] Each command consists of two or more Corps– an army field formation responsible for zone within a command theater.
[failed verification] Each of the six tactical commands directly reports to the office of Chief of Army Staff, operating directly at the Army GHQ.
[full citation needed] The operation was eventually unsuccessful.
[further explanation needed] On 25 June 2016, Pakistan became a full member of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
[h] From 1983 to 1988, he played for Sussex.
[needs update] On 23 December 2016, a Chinese consortium won the bid for a 40% stake in the PSX with an offer of US$85.5 million.
[neutrality is disputed] Suicide bombs were commonplace in Pakistan, whereas they were unheard of prior to 9/11.
[note 11] Declassified British papers indicate that Britain and the US had let their Cold War calculations influence their policy in the UN, disregarding the merits of the case.
[note 14] On 1 September, Pakistan launched an attack across the Cease Fire Line, targeting Akhnoor in an effort to cut Indian communications into Kashmir.
[note 2] The largest political party, National Conference, headed by Sheikh Abdullah, endorsed the accession.
[note 6] Following the set-up of the United Nations Commission for India and Pakistan (UNCIP), the UN Security Council passed Resolution 47 on 21 April 1948.
[note 6] The resulting First Kashmir War lasted until the end of 1948.
[note 8] The resolution was accepted by India but effectively rejected by Pakistan.
[page needed] Severe criticism were also raised by MP Ayaz Amir On the other hand, Liquat Ali Khan described as this bill as the "Magna Carta" of Pakistan's constitutional history.
a majority committed by the Indian armed forces.
and Chuppan Chuppai to shed light on what it means to be transgender in Pakistan.
and Police on the one hand and the armed forces of Pakistan on the other, are going on.
and a 2016 Vice documentary Blackout: Being LGBT in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
and lifted the ban on trade unions and student associations.
and with the controversial assassination of Baloch politician in 2006, the army had to engage in battles with the Baloch separatists fighting for the Balochistan's autonomy.
are appealable to a court of sessions judge which also transfer the criminal Appeals and criminal revisions to Additional Sessions Judges.
because of Atif's affiliation with the Ahmadiyya faith.
by Indian security forces on 8 July 2016.
by saying "I believe" (that he does), which replaced the words "I solemnly swear" (that the Prophet has that status).
custodial rape) are liable to imprisonment for life and a fine.
custody of minors, recovery of bridal gifts etc.
if there were recriminations they were not made public.
in 1984, under the orders of Zia-ul-Haq, the ISI prepared for a rebellion, which was to be set in motion in 1991.
in Chapter 1: The President, Part III: The Federation of Pakistan in the Constitution of Pakistan.
just eight, got elected compared to previous years.
no public commission of inquiry was set up in Pakistan to investigate the people responsible for initiating the conflict.
of Eastern Command) and his deputy, V-Adm. M.S.
opines that the MUF would have won most of the constituencies in the Kashmir Valley.
over 200,00 fled and finally, the Muslims rose in rebellion.
remains considerably lower compared to men.
stepped up efforts to promote bilateral trade, especially in textiles, oilseeds, extraction of oil and tourism; Pakistan also offered a US$5 million line of credit to Nepal.
the bloodiest in the history of the city, with many people missing.
the main event that inspired the nation to fight for its independence.
to create a solid bloc of all Muslim states from Karachi to Ankara, from Pakistan to Morocco.
to dissolve the government of Nawaz Sharif.
to drive the country on the model of an Islamic welfare state.
to immediately pull all Pakistani troops and irregulars out from Kargil.
voted to cast their lots with Pakistan, a decision joined by the assemblies in Sind and Baluchistan.
when senior separatist leader Akbar Bugti defected to Bhutto, revealing a series of arms stored in the Iraqi Embassy.
which explores the issues faced by other LGBTQ Muslims living under Islamic law that deems homosexuality illegal.
with one source saying 50% of these were non-Muslims, who represent only 3% of the national population.
§ indicates events in the internal resistance movement linked to the Indo-Pakistani War.‡ indicates events in the Indo-Pakistani War linked to the internal resistance movement in Bangladesh.
میں پاکستان کا شہری پاکستان کا مالک ھوں, the film extols the principle of Government of the people, by the people and for the people.
— Jayaprakash Narayan's letter to Nehru, May 1, 1956.
‘Use of Innovative Technology Award’ and ‘Accessibility Award’ in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, December 2013 during an international competition.
“Malik Riaz's case proved that the media can hold the judiciary and even itself accountable", says Javed Chaudhry, columnist and anchorperson working with Express News.
