"Desi diet" refers to a diet and food choices followed by Indians around the world.
"Islamic activists" such as much or the ulama (Islamic clerics) and Jamaat-e-Islami (Islamist party), support the expansion of "Islamic law and Islamic practices".
"Islamisation" was the "primary" policy, or "centerpiece" of his government.
"The Pakistani media has covered the journey of 100 years in just 10 years, but their curiosity and thrust for revelation does not end and that is what drives the media".
"This case, along with the missing persons' case has established impartiality and credibility of the media in its fight against corruption".
'one who sings in harmony with') led by a principal singer.
'three brave ones') was produced and directed by Sharmeen Obaid Chinoy.
(a) Article 20 : Freedom to profess religion and to manage religious institutions.
(b) Article 21 : Safeguard against taxation for purposes of any particular religion.
(c) Article 22 : Safeguards as to educational institutions in respect of religion, etc.
(e) Article 26 : Non-discrimination in respect of access to public places.
(f) Article 27 : Safeguard against discrimination in services.
(g) Article 36 : Protection of Minorities.
(h) Article 38 : Promotion of social and economic well-being of all the people.
* Saraiki and Hindko were included with Punjabi until the 1981 census.
*Census data for the Pakistani administered territories of Gilgit-Baltistan and Azad Kashmir not available as of 2024.
1 million (US$3,500) which is biggest preview collections ever in Pakistan.
10,000s of activists from the Jamaat-e-Islami party were appointed to government posts to ensure the continuation of his agenda after his passing.
10.5 crore (US$360,000) at the end of April.
11th century) and Shahbaz Qalander in Sehwan, Sindh (ca.
11th century), Sultan Bahoo in Shorkot Jhang, Baha-ud-din Zakariya in Multan, and Shahbaz Qalander in Sehwan (ca.
12th century) and Shah Abdul Latif Bhitai in Bhit, Sindh and Rehman Baba in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province.
1998 saw the release of Noor's Choorian, a Punjabi film that grossed Rs180 million rupees.
20 million (US$69,000) at the box office.
2013 proved to be a great year for Pakistani cinema.
2014 proved to be an equally great year, with Na Maloom Afraad (Unidentified Persons) taking the 2014 box office.
2015 picked off from the momentum of 2014 and 2013.
2016 continued the momentum of new age Pakistani cinema.
22 million (US$76,000) in its first week of release.
3 Bahadur became Pakistan's first computer-animated feature-length film.
3 crore (US$100,000) overseas, taking lifetime gross to Rs.
5 million (US$17,000) before its release as Malik Riaz had bought 10,000 tickets in advance.
6 of these districts also have literacy rates above 80%.
6 of these districts also have literacy rates at or above 90%, with the highest being Upper Chitral at 95%.
6.63 crore (US$230,000) after 50 days of successful run in cinemas and became 7th highest-grossing film in Pakistani cinema history.
7.50 crore (US$260,000) at domestic box office and around Rs.
96.47% are Muslims, followed by 2.14% Hindus, 1.27% Christians, 0.09% Ahmadis and 0.02% others.
A 2010 opinion poll by PEW Research Centre also found that 87% of Pakistanis considered themselves 'Muslims first' rather than a member of their nationality.
A 2012 study by Gallup Pakistan found that people not affiliated to any religion account for 1% of the population.
A 2012 study found 50% of surveyed Pakistanis considered Shia as Muslims while 41% rejected Shia as Muslims.
A PEW opinion poll found that 84% of Pakistanis favoured making Sharia the official law of the land.
A PEW survey in 2012 found that 6% of Pakistani Muslims were Shia.
A few Protestant groups conduct missions in Pakistan.
A few are highly endangered languages that may soon have no speakers at all.
A few aspects of secularism have also been adopted by Pakistani constitution from British colonial concept.
A fourth independent branch, Dardic, was previously posited, but recent scholarship in general places Dardic languages as archaic members of the Indo-Aryan branch.
A key characteristic of Qawwali is its emphasis on improvisation and lyrics derived from Sufi poetry, often expressing themes of divine love, longing, and spiritual devotion.
A larger number of Pakistani Hazaras speak Hazaragi dialect.
A major programme of expansion saw new stations open at Karachi and Rawalpindi in 1948, and a new broadcasting house at Karachi in 1950.
A majority of Pakistan's Muslim population has had some form of formal or informal education in the reading, writing and pronunciation of Arabic as part of their religious education.
A minority of madrasas are affiliated with the Ahl-i Hadith.
A month after the attack on the Sri Lankan team, the International Cricket Council relieved Pakistan of co-hosting duty for any 2011 Cricket World Cup games.
A new style of architecture known as Indo-Saracenic revival style developed, from a mixture of European and Indo-Islamic components.
A number of channels have been shut down in the past with the latest such incident involving Geo TV and other channels in the Geo TV network after a Fatwa was issued against it.
A particularly beautiful example of Buddhist architecture is the ruins of the Buddhist monastery Takht-i-Bahi in the northwest province.
A particularly interesting aspect of this gender disparity is representation of Pakistani women in STEMM (science, technology, engineering, mathematics and medicine).
A pivotal moment in the history of television in Pakistan occurred in the year 2002 with the liberalisation of the media industry.
A prominent figure in Pakistani visual arts was the Karachi-based watercolourist Qudsia Azmat Nisar, who died in 2021.
A quarterly “Urdu Science Magazine” is being published regularly by Urdu Science Board since 2002.
A reason for this is that females who are a vulnerable group, are less likely to access as much education as boys.
A recent study in Pakistan compared teachers who were employed by regular institutions and special education institutions.
A science park in Lahore, the Arfa Software Technology Park, was named after her.
A session of Qawwali is formally referred to as "Mehfil-e-Sama," as it is considered a form of sama, a Sufi tradition performed as part of the meditation and prayer practice known as dhikr.
A shortage of teachers and poorly equipped laboratories have resulted in the out-dated curriculum that has little relevance to present-day needs.
A significant Hindu pilgrimage site known as Hinglaj Mata takes place in southern Balochistan, where over 250,000 people visit during spring as a pilgrimage.
A study published by the Research Journal of Commerce, Economics, and Social Sciences, discusses the importance of education.
A study revealed that reflective writing and case studies have been the best approach to raising awareness about human rights issues in teacher preparation programs in Pakistan.
A subset of Shia in Pakistan are the Hazara ethnic group—which are distinct from other Shi’a due to their language and facial features.
A typical example is aloo gosht (literally "potatoes and meat"), a homestyle recipe consisting of a spiced meat and potato stew, prepared in many households.
A wide variety of lentils is consumed in Pakistan and frequently with rice.
A-level institutions are different from high school.
ARY Digital was launched in September 2000, Geo Entertainment in August 2002, Aaj TV in March 2005 and Hum TV was launched in January 2005, and the phenomenon went on.
ATV became Pakistan's sole semi-private TV channel, broadcasting on both terrestrial and satellite platforms.
Abdus Salam was a Pakistani theoretical physicist and Nobel laureate in physics for his work on the electroweak unification of the electromagnetic and weak forces.
Abida Parveen is another renowned kafi singer of Sindh, but she, too, sings in many other genres.
About 60% Muslims in Pakistan regard themselves as followers of Sufi saints.
About 93% of Hindus live in Sindh, 5% in Punjab and nearly 2% in Balochistan.
Above mentioned national broadcasters, i.e PTV Corp and SRBC do not come under purview of PEMRA.
According to Dr. Akhtar Baloch, Professor at University of Karachi, the Balochis migrated from Balochistan during the Little Ice Age and settled in Sindh and Punjab.
According to Gilani Kamran (GC University), Pakistani literature was expected to take a new direction along with the new state of Pakistan at this point, but did not immediately meet this expectation.
According to Ordinance XX, Ahmadi Muslims cannot call themselves Muslim or "pose as Muslims" which is punishable by three years in prison.
According to Professor Baloch, the climate of Balochistan was very cold and the region was uninhabitable during the winter so the Baloch people migrated in waves and settled in Sindh and Punjab.
According to Shajeel Zaidi a million people attended Zia ul Haq's funeral because he had given them what they wanted: more religion.
According to UNESCO's 2009 Global Education Digest, 6% of Pakistanis (9% of men and 3.5% of women) were university graduates as of 2007.
According to a 2003 report, an average Pakistani consumed three times more meat than an average Indian.
According to a report by the UK Foreign Office, Pakistan's media environment continued to develop and, in many cases, flourish.
According to a tradition, Baba Ratan Hindi was a trader from Punjab who was one of the non-Arab companions of Muhammad.
According to several critics it had not only evolved its own identity but also had played a significant role in documenting the hardships and hopes of Pakistan in the latter part of the 20th century.
According to supporters of the movement, establishing an Islamic state based on sharia law would mean a return to the justice and success of the early days of Islam when Muhammad ruled the Muslims.
According to the 1998 census, people who did not state their religion accounted for 0.5% of the population, but social pressure against claiming no religion was strong.
According to the 2013 Pew Research Center report, the majority of Pakistani Muslims also support the death penalty for those who leave Islam (62%).
According to the 2023 census, only about 9.25% of Pakistanis reported it as their first language.
According to the 2023 census, speakers of the Kohistani languages accounted around 1 million of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province population.
According to the Australian Journal of Asian Law, in 2018, Pakistan defined what they consider to be "transgender".
According to the CIA World Factbook and Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies, 96–97% of the total population of Pakistan is Muslim.
According to the Pakistan Bureau of Statistics (formerly the Federal Bureau of Statistics), they had a combined daily sale of 6.1 million copies in 2009.
According to the data, Pakistan faces a significant unemployment challenge, particularly among its educated youth, with over 31% of them being unemployed.
According to the last Census in Pakistan, Ahmadi Muslim made up 0.07% of the population; however, the Ahmadiyya Muslim community boycotted the census.
According to these new amendments, the publisher would be liable and prosecuted if a story was not to the liking of the administration even if it was factual and of national interest.
Additionally, Pakistan has shown quite a bit of improvement since 2006 for literacy and educational attainment for women (Moin et al., 2018).
Additionally, as this journal has stated later on, that it marks transgender individuals as "other" compared to cisgender individuals.
Additionally, the NH&LH Division had compiled a directory of 320 Pakistani calligraphers, documenting their profiles and contributions.
Additionally, there is not a female university leader presence in the whole country.
Adherents of the Kalash religion number around 3,000 and inhabit three remote valleys in Chitral; Bumboret, Rumbur and Birir.
Advanced Placement (or AP) is an alternative option, but it is much less common than GCE or IGCSE.
Advanced teacher apps revolutionize curriculum management by promoting data-driven learning.
After 2003, it was replaced by the Pakistan Premier League.
After General Zia-ul-Haq took power in a military coup, Hizb ut-Tahrir (an Islamist group calling for the establishment of a Caliphate) expanded its organisational network and activities in Pakistan.
After Independence, modern architectural styles like the International style became popular.
After Independence, the architecture of Pakistan is a blend of historic Islamic and various modern styles.
After Pakistan's first ever general elections the 1973 Constitution was created by an elected Parliament.
After having been liberalised in 2002, the television sector experienced a media boom.
After independence in 1947, there were only two major art schools in Pakistan - the Mayo School of Art and the Department of Fine Arts at the Punjab University.
After pre-school education, students go through junior school from years 1 to 5.
After scouting for locations, he settled for their offices to be established at Ravi Road.
After the eighteenth amendment was abolished in 2010, there was more autonomy available to people in the health care and education spectrums.
After the end of each of the school years, students are required to pass a national examination administered by a regional Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education (or BISE).
After the passage of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, the United States dramatically increased immigration from the subcontinent.
Ahmadi Muslims believe in Muhammad as the final law-bearing prophet, but also believe Mirza Ghulam Ahmad to be a prophet, the prophecised Mehdi and second coming of Jesus.
Ahsan Ramzan has set a new record for amateur snooker and became the 2nd youngest champion in the world after Chinese player Yan Bingtao at World Amateur Snooker Championships.
Ali was also the driver of the A1GP Team Pakistan in 2006.
All in all, in the future, these LCPSs may be able to reach more and more of the marginalized groups of people.
All of the main dishes (except those made with rice) are eaten alongside bread.
All of them are non-alcoholic as the consumption of alcohol is prohibited by Islam.
All these features also have influenced Mughal architecture.
All these options are normally intricately embroidered, and are moderately popular with Indian brides too.
All three of these starred Gul Hamid in the lead role, and had similar supporting casts.
Allocations for education should not be affected by squeezed fiscal space or surge in military expenditure or debts.
Almost one-third of universities in Balochistan do not have professors in their teacher education departments and there was not a PhD in education at any of the universities in Balochistan.
Alongside Geo Films, the "Pakistan New Cinema Movement" was launched in 2009 with around 1400 members which facilitated networking to stimulate newer film productions.
Aloo mutter is made with potatoes and peas.
Also 7 universities of Pakistan were ranked among top 1000 QS Asia University rankings 2018.
Also, because of the PHF's poor economy, there were two years without any international matches between 2019 and 2021.
Alternative qualifications in Pakistan are available but these are maintained by other examination boards instead of BISE.
Alternatives like "South Asian" or "Brown" have been proposed, but they also have their limitations and can be perceived as misleading or exclusive.
Although Muslim governments were unsympathetic with Pakistan's pan-Islamic aspirations, Islamists from all over the world were drawn to Pakistan.
Although Pakistani rowers take part in events, it is considered a minority sport.
Although a light ban had existed since 1952 in West Pakistan and since 1962 in East Pakistan, this was enforced more strictly in the war's aftermath.
Although it is a form of folk music, it is typically performed by professional musicians.
Although many of the teachers rejected the evolution of humans, " all agreed that there is 'no contradiction between science and Islam' in general".
Although sometimes criticise for being unprofessional and politically biased, the television channels have made a great contribution to the media landscape and to Pakistani society.
Although the radio sector has not seen similar growth, independent radio channels are numerous and considered very important sources of information - especially in the rural areas.
Amina Wali is a alpine skier and she remained national champion for 15 years.
Amir Khan, the professional British boxing world champion of Pakistani descent was the guest in the final rounds of tournament.
Among Sunni Muslims, the Hanafi school of jurisprudence is followed by the majority while a minority belongs to the Ahl-i Hadith tradition which rejects imitation of the four schools.
Among non-diasporic South Asians, the term Desi is sometimes used to indicate that a person is rural, unexposed to foreign/modern culture, and more deeply steeped in native South Asian culture.
Among other criticisms the Pakistani education system faces is the gender disparity in enrollment levels.
Among the most popular Balochi dishes are Balochi sajji (skewered lamb or chicken stuffed with rice), mutton rosh (mutton chops) and dampukht (meat slow-cooked in its own fats).
Among those are visible projects, like the MagnifiScience Centre in Karachi.
Among those institutions can be found vocational schools, technical training centres and agriculture and vocational training centres.
An additional 90 marks are allotted for practicals (30 for each science).
An alternative local name for this language group is Hindki.
An apprenticeship system is also framed by the state of Pakistan.
An example of Buddhist architecture is the ruins of the Buddhist monastery Takht-i-Bahi in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Analysts such as M. M. Sharif and Zafar Hassan established the first major Pakistani philosophical movement in 1947.
Anarkalis are also an option, imitating gowns.
Anita Karim is the first international female Mixed Martial Arts fighter from Pakistan to win multiple national and international-level bouts.
Anjuman quit from playback signing, Sultan Rahi was murdered in 1996, director Sangeeta put her career on hold to attended to family life while Nazrul Islam died.
Another Quranist movement in Pakistan is Ahlu Zikr.
Another consequence of the 2002 regulations was that most of these were hurriedly enacted by President Musharraf before the new government took office.
Another early producer was Roop K. Shorey, who, upon hearing of Lahore's growing film industry, returned to his hometown and produced Qismat Ke Haer Pher (Life After Death) in 1932.
Another issue is the process of license issuance and revocation, with claims of arbitrariness.
Another point of weakness education in Pakistan faces is relevance in content.
Another popular act of the 1980s was the pop and rock band Vital Signs, with Junaid Jamshed as the vocalist and Rohail Hyatt as the keyboardist.
Another prominent Jain monk of the region was Vijayanandsuri of Gujranwala, whose samadhi (memorial shrine) still stands in the city.
Another rising star during this period was Nadeem Baig, who received instant stardom with his debut film Chakori in 1967.
Another type of education in Pakistan is called "Technical Education" and combines technical and vocational education.
Apart from tombs, Ranikot Fort and Kot Diji Fort are also a good example of Sindhi architecture.
Approximately 65% of Pakistan's Islamic seminaries are affiliated with the Deobandi school, compared to 25% associated with the Barelvi tradition.
Approximately 65% of Pakistan's Islamic seminaries are affiliated with the Deobandis, compared to 25% associated with the Barelvis.
Arabic is mentioned in the constitution of Pakistan.
Arabic is taught as a religious language in mosques, schools, colleges, universities and madrassahs.
Arabic is used as a religious language by Muslims.
Archaeologists excavated numerous Bronze Age cities, among them are Mohenjo Daro, Harrappa and Kot Diji from the 3rd millennium BCE.
Archery competitions are also a regular part of the National Games.
Architecture of province of Sindh is greatly influenced from its neighbouring regions of Gujarat and Punjab, as well as broader Indo-Islamic architecture.
Arfa Abdul Karim Randhawa was a Pakistani student and computer prodigy who, in 2004 at the age of nine, became the youngest Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP).
Arfa represented Pakistan on various international forums including the TechEd Developers Conference.
Article 25-A of the Constitution of Pakistan makes it obligatory for the state to provide free and compulsory quality education to children in the age group 5 to 16 years.
As Gilgit itself is a blend of cultures from neighboring districts like Hunza, Ghizer and Chilas, the cuisines of these regions is also widely found here.
As a result, around 7.3 million Hindus and Sikhs moved to India and 7.2 million Muslims moved to Pakistan permanently, leading to demographic change of both the nations to a certain extent.
As a result, violence-ridden Punjabi films prevailed and overshadowed Urdu cinema.
As black and white films became obsolete, colour films such as Munshi Dil's Azra in 1962, Zahir Raihan's Sangam (first full-length coloured film) in 1964, and Mala (first coloured cinema-scope film).
As cinema viewership increased, the industry found more success.
As increasing numbers of students from the subcontinent arrived in the US and UK, their countries of origin were colloquially referred to as deś.
As much as 85–90% of Pakistanis follows Sunni Islam.
As of 2007[update], public expenditure on education was 2.2 percent of GNPs, a marginal increase from 2 percent before 1984–85.
As of 2009, Pakistan faces a net primary school attendance rate for both sexes of 66%, a figure below estimated world average of 90 per cent.
As of 2017[update] some Pakistanis are learning Mandarin to do business with companies from the People's Republic of China.
As of 2020, Pakistan has the fourth largest Hindu population in the world after India, Nepal and Bangladesh.
As of 2022[update] Pakistan's literacy rates range from 96% in Islamabad to 23% in the Torghar District.
As of December 2022 the team is ranked 16th in the world.
As of the 2023 Census, there are 14 districts within Pakistan which have literacy rates at 75% or above.
As per 2017 Census of Pakistan, the country has a population of 207,684,000.The CCI approved the release of provisional population figures of 207.754 million people.
As political uncertainty took charge of the entertainment industry, filmmakers were asked to consider the socio-political impacts of their films.
As some digests cater to current events, but a large number of them used to publish pulp fiction.
As such, they are typically not served to guests who are invited for dinner or during special occasions.
As the War in North-West Pakistan continued, there have been frequent threats against journalists.
As the founder of Samar Camp, she promotes adventure sports and women's empowerment in Pakistan.
As the global popularity of football surged, the sport’s standing in Pakistan deteriorated.
Association football is the second-most played sport in Pakistan and it is organised and regulated by the Pakistan Football Federation.
At Skoolify, we are committed to making a positive impact on the world by focusing on Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) targets.
At independence, Pakistan had radio stations in Dhaka, Lahore, and Peshawar.
At the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, Shah narrowly lost to Scotland's Euan Burton in the -100 kg division finals, securing a silver medal.
At the Asian Games held in Jakarta, Indonesia in 2018, Nargis Hameedullah became the first Pakistani woman to win an individual medal (a bronze) at the Asian Games.
At the college level, it was 0.50 in 1990–91 and reached 0.81 in 1999–2000, showing that the disparity decreased by 64%.
At the post-secondary level, there has been much research conducted about the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats when practicing distance learning.
At the same time in its phonology it is radically different.
At the same time, music serves as a powerful tool for activism and resistance.
At the same time, there is a need to debate others options about how Pakistan can "invent" the miracle of raising education expenditure to 7 percent of GDP by 2015.
At the start of the 1990s, Pakistan's film industry was gripped with certain doom.
At the time of independence of Pakistan in 1947, Karachi and Lahore were home to a thriving Parsi business community.
At the time of its release, it became the highest-grossing Pakistani film ever.
Atta-ur-Rahman is a Pakistani scientist known for his work in the field of natural product chemistry.
Attacks on Shias increased under the presidency of Zia-ul-Haq, with the first major sectarian riots in Pakistan breaking out in 1983 in Karachi and later spreading to other parts of the country.
Ayub Ommaya was a Pakistani neurosurgeon who heavily contributed to his field.
Badala, is an epic poem set to music and accompanied by instruments like the harmonium, drums, and tabla.
Bahá'í sources claim their population to be around 30,000.
Balochi (بلوچی) is an Iranian language spoken as a first language by about 3% of Pakistanis, mostly in the Balochistan province of Pakistan.
Balochi and Pashto are written in Perso-Arabic script.
Balochi cuisine originates from Pakistan's Balochistan region, yet many of its dishes have gained nationwide acclaim.
Balochi music, primarily found in the Pakistani province of Balochistan.
Balochi women wear heavy embroidered shalwar kameez and dupatta with the embroidery utilising Shisha work.
Basketball was introduced to Pakistan around 1900 and is especially popular in Lahore and Karachi.
Basmati is the most popular type of rice consumed in Pakistan.
Beans such as black-eyed peas (lobia) and kidney beans (rajma) are sometimes served in a tomato-based masala sauce, especially in Punjab.
Because of COVID-19, Pakistan had to consider using online classes.
Because of this it alters the process of online learning especially for poor students or those living in rural areas.
Before 2005, Lahore was a film hub for both Punjabi and Urdu films.
Before the 19th century, Pakistani literature consisted mainly of lyric and religious poetry and mystical and folkloric works.
Being an actress associated with the current crop of productions became an understandable taboo and many middle-class people began shunning these films.
Besides tea, there are other drinks that may be included as part of the Pakistani cuisine.
Besides the state channel Radio Pakistan, a number of private radios carry independent journalistic content and news.
Better electronic media capacity was needed in the future and thus the market for electronic media was liberalised.
Between 1947 and 2007, Pakistani cinema was predominantly based in Lahore, home to the nation's largest film industry (nicknamed Lollywood).
Between July and September, a number of films were released beginning with Bin Roye (Without Crying).
Bhatt would later hire Atif Aslam for the soundtrack of his film Zeher and Pakistani actress Meera to play a lead-role in one of his films.
Biryani is a commonly served dish in Pakistan, and has many varieties, such as Lahori and Sindhi biryani.
Black tea with milk and sugar is widely popular throughout Pakistan and is consumed daily, often accompanied by cookies or halva.
Both black (with milk) and green teas are popular and there are different varieties common in different parts of Pakistan.
Brahui (براہوئی) is a Dravidian language spoken in the central part of Balochistan province of Pakistan.
British-Pakistani writer Nadeem Aslam won the Kiriyama Prize for his second book, Maps for Lost Lovers (2004).
Buddhism has an ancient history in Pakistan; currently there is a small community of at least 1,500 Pakistani Buddhists in the country.
But it was of no use as till then cable TV network was already introduced in urbanized cities, like Rawalpindi, Islamabad, Lahore and Karachi.
But most radio content is music and entertainment.
But there has been a surge in interest, particularly with Rubab Raza.
But this assumed that other Muslim states would take the same view of the relation between religion and nationality.
But, if females are able to attend, they academically outperform male students.
But, low female enrollment is still a very prevalent issue.
By 1947 there were around 80 cinemas in East Bengal.
By 1994, PTV joined the satellite beam alongside PTV-2, which was later renamed PTV World in 1998.
By 1999, a surge of new films began releasing.
By 2000, the film industry in Lahore had collapsed and saw a gradual shift of Pakistani actors, actresses, producers and filmmakers from Lahore to Karachi.
By 2003, young filmmakers in Karachi began experimenting with film and released low budget films to demonstrate that high quality content could be produced in Pakistan using limited resources.
By 2005, a gradual shift had begun whereby Karachi was replacing Lahore as the Urdu film hub of the country.
By 2007, the wounds of Pakistan's collapsed film industry began to heal and Karachi had cemented itself as the new center of Pakistani cinema.
By 2013, several Pakistani films were theatrically released - the first time in over a decade.
By analyzing vast educational data, these portals identify learning patterns, assess teaching methodologies, and pinpoint areas for improvement.
By now the annual output dropped to around 40 films, all produced by a single studio.
By providing extensive coverage of the 2007 Lawyer's Movement's struggle to get the chief justice reinstated, the media played a significant role in mobilising civil society.
By the 15th century, decorated rosettes and circular patterns began to be incorporated into the tombs.
By the early 2000s "an industry that once produced an average of 80 films annually was now struggling to even churn out more than two films a year".
By the early 2000s, 1,500 newspapers and journals existed in Pakistan.
By the end of the 10th century CE, the region was ruled by several Hindu Shahi kings who would be subdued by the Ghaznavids.
Byram D. Avari also won a silver medal at the Enterprise World Championship held in Canada in 1978.
Byram Dinshawji Avari won gold medals for Pakistan at the 1978 Asian Games in Bangkok, and again at the 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi.
Cable TV Networks are the most famous mode of television distribution in Pakistan.
Calculations of the author show that during the past 37 years, the highest public expenditure on education was 2.80 percent of GDP in 1987–88.
Carla Khan, Noorena Shams two of Pakistan's most successful sportswomen, who represent Pakistan.
Cases collected by Global Human Rights Defence show that underage Hindu (and Christian) girls are often targeted by Muslims for forced conversion to Islam.
Censorship during the Zia years was direct, concrete and dictatorial.
Channels like ARY Digital, Geo Entertainment, and Hum TV were launched, introducing a diverse range of programming to the Pakistani audience.
Chapshuro is the local alternative of pizza in Nagar.
Charbeta is a highly popular form of Pashto poetry, often epic in nature, focusing on heroic figures and events.
Chaudhry feels, like many others in country, that the media in Pakistan has become free and fair during the last decade.
Chicken karahi is a famous poultry dish.
Chickpeas, known as channa, are also a common breakfast food when served with puri.
Chickpeas, red kidney beans, and other legumes are also popular in Pakistani cooking.
Chiltan Adventurers Association Balochistan is the major affiliated unit of ACP founded in 1984.
Chris Rodgers won the Pakistan Open in 2006.
Christians (Urdu: مسيحى، عیسائی) make up 1.3% of Pakistan's population.
Christians mainly live in the urban centres of Punjab.
Cinema houses were declining in all major cities and a revival of cinema was being echoed throughout the media.
Cities like Harappa and Mohenjo-Daro (the "City of the Dead") had populations of some 35,000, they were laid out according to a grid system.
Civil society in Pakistan is largely hierarchical, emphasising local cultural etiquette and traditional Islamic values that govern personal and political life.
Classical and other dances are classified as sword dances, broqchhos and ghazal dances.
Club nights that feature [South] Asian music such as bhangra and [South Asian] hip hop, as previously mentioned, are often billed as 'desi' nights.
Coke Studio Pakistan, a music television series, aimed to revive the blended identity of Pakistani music.
Combined they have won 14 world opens, making Pakistan the most decorated Squash nation in the world.
Common desserts include multani halwa and phikka khoya.
Common dishes are soups such as kalli, flatbread variants such as ghalmandi, and traditional juices such as chamborogh (made with dried apricots).
Common instruments used in Balochi music include the suroz, donali, and benju.
Common instruments used in Sindhi regional music include the yaktaro (a one-string instrument), narr (a type of flute), and naghara (a drum).
Consequently, Ahmadi Muslims were declared non-Muslims by a parliamentary tribunal and are subject to persecution under Pakistani blasphemy laws.
Conservative ulama (Islamic scholars) were added to the Council of Islamic Ideology.
Contemporary Islamic fundamentalists criticize its popular character, which in their view, does not accurately reflect the teachings and practice of the Islamic prophet Muhammad and his companions.
Content should teach students how to solve societal problems and not assist in political conflicts.
Controversy raged over the 1998 film Jinnah, produced by Akbar Salahuddin Ahmed and directed by Jamil Dehlavi.
Courses will be co-instructed by faculty from the Medill School, accomplished newsroom managers, editors and reporters from the United States, and prominent media professionals from Pakistan.
Credit goes to Ayesha Tammy Haq, a British-trained lawyer and chief executive of Fashion Pakistan, who came up with the idea for Pakistan’s first fashion week, held in November 2009.
Cricket is the most popular sport in Pakistan.
Cricket, however, is the most popular game across the country.
Critics argue that selective application of regulations and decisions influenced by political considerations may compromise the independence of media outlets.
Critics contend that such perceived inconsistencies could potentially stifle the diversity of voices and perspectives in the media landscape.
Cumin seeds, chili powder, turmeric, and bay leaves are also very popular.
DAE is a three years programme of instructions which is equivalent to 12th grade.
Daal chawaal (lentils and rice) is known as a popular comfort food in many Pakistani households.
Derajat is bound by the Indus River and the Sulaiman Mountains to the west.
Desi daru refers to "country liquor", such as fenny, toddy and arrack.
Desi pubs are especially common in the Black Country and surrounding areas of the West Midlands.
Designs by Yasmeen Lari, such as the Malki Zero Carbon Cultural Centre and Green Karavan Ghar are examples.
Desiness imagines a more conhesive, pan-South Asian American community that goes beyond nation, class, and religion.
Despite being a country with many mountains, the sport has never taken off until the late 1990s.
Despite modern trends, regional and traditional forms of dress have developed their own significance as a symbol of native tradition.
Despite optimism of a solid revival, progress continued to be slow.
Despite repeated assessments, the Punjab School Education Department has failed to initiate timely repairs.
Despite the crackdown on music during the Islamization regime, Pakistani music continued to evolve, often thriving in underground performances, through artists who continued to defy the regime.
Despite the crisis starting in the mid-1970s, Pakistani films have retained much of their distinctive identity, and since the shift to Karachi, they have regained their following.
Despite the importance of the issue, no new policies (except now-defunct-quota) have been proposed or implemented to ensure women's retention in workforce.
Despite the restrictive environment of the Islamization era, underground rock concerts began to flourish across the country.
Despite these differences, many dishes from Punjab have gained popularity across the region and throughout Pakistan.
Despite these obstacles, the first Pakistani feature film, Teri Yaad was released on 7 August 1948, and premiered at the Parbat Theatre in Lahore.
Dhoti, lungi, or tehmat are often worn in rural areas.
Digital TV satellite broadcasting commenced in 1999, with PTV/PTV-1 gaining an independent satellite beam in 2001.
Digital education has been started in many of the educational institution in Pakistan to utilize time efficiently during the current time.
Diploma holders are called associate engineers.
Directed by Azfar Jafri and written by Osman Khalid Butt, the film starred Hareem Farooq, Qazi Jabbar, Mahnoor Usman and Ahmed Ali Akbar.
Dishes like buckwheat bread, rosehip oil bread, and almond bread are commonly prepared in Hunza.
Dishes such as baingan bartha and sarson da saag are typical examples eaten in most homes.
Distance Learning for AIOU: Allama Iqbal Open University (AIOU) is a pioneer in distance education in Pakistan, offering flexible learning opportunities through online and offline modes.
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) education is available in selected areas and is usually pursued after earning a MPhil degree.
Dr. Naweed Syed is a Pakistani Canadian scientist.
Due to its Muslim-majority population, Pakistan's cuisine sees a strict observance of Islamic dietary laws.
Due to their dominance in both print and broadcast industries all three media groups are very influential in politics and society.
Due to this early on prevention of females attending schools, males dominate the education field.
Dumplings locally called mumtu are well known in Gilgit cuisine.
During Bahá'u'lláh's lifetime, as founder of the religion, he encouraged some of his followers to move to the area that is present day Pakistan.
During Baraat and Walima functions, the groom usually wears kurta shalwar or kurta churidar with special sherwani and khussa.
During Pre Islamic era in Pakistan, there was a prominent population of Hindus, especially in provinces in Punjab and Sindh.
During classical antiquity, a special Gandharan architecture evolved in the ancient region of Gandhara with the rise of Buddhism.
During the 1980s and 1990s the corporation expanded its network to many cities and towns of Pakistan to provide greater service to the local people.
During the 20th century, beverages such as coffee and soft drinks have become popular in Pakistan.
During the British Colonial period, European styles such as the Baroque, Gothic and Neoclassical became prevalent.
During the British Raj, European architectural styles such as baroque, gothic and neoclassical became more predominant.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, the nation launched an educational television channel, Teleschool.
During the Caliphate of Ali, many Hindus of Sindh had come under influence of Islam and some even participated in the Battle of Camel.
During the Mughal era, design elements of Persian-Islamic architecture became fused with architectural styles native to India, leading to new architectural revival.
During the colonial period, native literary figures were influenced by western literary realism and took up increasingly varied topics and narrative forms.
During the early 1970s, Pakistan was the world's fourth-largest producer of feature films.
During the early Muslim period, foreign Persian language became the lingua franca of South Asia, adopted and used by most of the educated and the government.
During this period Mahesh Bhatt, a celebrated Indian director, visited Pakistan looking for talent - particularly singers who could lend their voices to his upcoming films in India.
During this period, Sufi missionaries played a pivotal role in converting a majority of the regional Buddhist and Hindu population to Islam.
During this time, several additions were made to the Lahore Fort.
During this time, the Nastaʿlīq style of the Perso-Arabic script came into widespread use in South Asia, and the influence remains to this day.
During winter months, and generally across the northern regions of the country, men drape traditional shawls made of Pashmina or other warm materials.
Each grade has one hour of course material broadcast per day.
Each province has its own variant of salwar kameez such as Sindhi Salwar Khamis, Punjabi shalwar kameez, Pashtun shalwar kameez, and Balochi shalwar kameez.
Each stream consists of three electives and three compulsory subjects of English, Urdu, Islamiat (year 11 only) and Pakistan Studies (year 12 only).
Early pioneers of Pakistani art include Abdur Rahman Chughtai who painted with Mughal and Islamic styles, and Ahmed Parvez who was among the early modernists of Pakistan.
Early pioneers of Pakistani heavy metal included bands like Black Warrant, Final Cut, and Barbarians.
Education plays a crucial role in developing countries by transmitting necessary life skills to the future citizens.
Emerging authors Kamila Shamsie and Daniyal Mueenuddin have garnered wide attention.
Engineer Ubaidur Rahman, appointed by Wajjid Ali, oversaw the project.
English is a co-official language of Pakistan and is widely used in the executive, legislative and judicial branches as well as to some extent in the officer ranks of Pakistan's armed forces.
English is one of the official languages of Pakistan (Urdu, being the other) and has been established in the area since the British colonial era.
English is seen as the language of upward mobility, and its use is becoming more prevalent in upper social circles, where it is often spoken alongside native Pakistani languages.
Equestrianism had traditionally been limited to the upper-echelon of Pakistani society up until the end of the 20th century.
Equipped with courage and super powers, they battle against the odds and stand up to injustice to restore peace and harmony in their once thriving community and live a very happy life.
Established in 2002, PEMRA serves as the regulatory body responsible for issuing licenses, ensuring compliance with codes of conduct, and maintaining standards across the electronic media sector.
Established under the Press Council of Pakistan Ordinance in October 2002, the body operates on a semi-autonomous nature along with an Ethical Code of Practice signed by President Musharraf.
Estimates of the number of madrasas vary between 12,000 and 40,000.
Estimates on the Sunni population in Pakistan range from 85% to 90%.
Etymologically, the word "ghazal" originates from Arabic, where it means "to flirt," and often denotes themes of love and longing in Arabic poetry.
Even the song "Dil Dil Pakistan" by Vital Signs, despite, a patriotic anthem, got censored for showing young men in Western clothing.
Even with this act, these individuals are abused and are marginalized.
Even with this amount of training, there are a few criticisms regarding teacher training.
Even with this improvement, due to their low social status and inequities regarding access to education, even when they comprise half of the population, women are still facing these burdens.
Every province of the country holds its own men's and women's championships.
Evidence of controlled preparatory cuisine in the region can be traced back to as early as the Bronze Age with the Indus Valley Civilization.
Examples of these include the Convention of the Rights of the Children (1989), the Millennium Development Goals (UN 1990), and the Sustainable Development Goals (2015).
Extensive fashion activities are shown in Pakistani fashion events held in different parts of the country as well as abroad.
FM broadcast licenses are awarded to parties that commit to open FM broadcasting stations in at least one rural city along with the major city of their choice.
Factually, since female enrollment is so much lower compared to males across all of the provinces in Pakistan, literacy rates along with dropout rates are much higher.
Families feel that these schools are unsafe for them.
Famous folklores, such as that of Sassi Punnu, are often the poetic content of Punjabi folk music.
Farjad Saif is the first player in Pakistan Table Tennis history to represent the country in the Olympics, participating in the 1988 Seoul Games.
Farshi Pajama is an old traditional dress which is worn occasionally.
Female students are also not offered the same classes as male students in the majority of the schools.
Feudalism and patriarchist leadership has made it harder for people in rural areas to receive formal education, this is especially true for females.
Field hockey is the national sport of Pakistan; it has won three gold medals in the Olympic Games held in 1960, 1968, and 1984.
Field hockey is the national sport, and was popular for several decades, with some of Pakistan's greatest sporting accomplishments having taken place in this sport, along with squash.
Films dropped from a total output of 98 in 1979, of which 42 were in Urdu, to only 58 films of which 26 were in Urdu in 1980.
Finally, one could receive their master's or Ph.D. in education.
Finally, they would receive a bachelor's degree in education for two more years to become an elementary teacher.
Fishel Benkhald) of Karachi claims to be Pakistan's only Jew.
Football has also gained popularity in recent years, and is the second most popular sport in the country.
Football in Pakistan is as old as the country itself.
Footwear include the khussa and Peshawari chappal, which is also widely worn.
For Muslim women, the dupatta is a less stringent alternative to the chador or burqa (see hijab and purdah).
For a thousand years, wheat and rice served as basic comestibles in the Indus Valley region.
For a time, Persian remained the court language of the Mughals, soon to be replaced by Urdu and English.
For example, "Desi chicken" may refer to a native breed of chicken.
For example, Urban Desi is a genre of music formed by the fusion of traditional South Asian music and Western urban music.
For example, all things Indian including Indian expatriates were referred to as "desi".
For example, hijras, or males who act "feminine" are ridiculed and harassed".
For example, in the north-west, particularly in the tribal areas, it is customary for a bride to wear Firaq Partug.
For instance, one study of Pakistani science teachers showed that many rejected evolution based on religious grounds.
For instance, the makers of Tehzeeb, released on 20 November 1971, were asked to change the lyrics of a song that might have proved detrimental to the diplomatic relations between Egypt and Pakistan.
For the middle level of education it was 0.42 in the start of decade and increased to 0.68 by the end of decade, so it has improved almost 62%.
Foreign satellite TV channels were added during the 1990s.
Founded by Baba-e-Urdu Maulvi Abdul Haq who was first Chief Editor of the organization.
Four periods are recognised in Pakistani architecture: pre-Islamic, Islamic, colonial, and post-colonial.
Fresh fruits like apricots and cherries are transformed into jams, dried fruits, and juices, while dairy products like yogurt and cheese play a significant role in both savory and sweet offerings.
From 1948 to 2003, the National Football Championship was held in Pakistan.
From 1964 into the early 1990s, the National Press Trust acted as the government's front to control the press.
From 1981 to 1986, Khan was unbeaten and during that time won 555 consecutive matches – the longest winning streak by any athlete in top-level professional sport as recorded by Guinness World Records.
From 1990 until 1996, he remained unbeaten in 81 matches for consecutive six years.
From 2002, under General Pervez Musharraf, the Pakistani media faced a decisive development that would lead to a boom in Pakistani electronic media and paved the way to it gaining political clout.
From Season 7 onward, Coke Studio shifted to a more mainstream style, increasingly incorporating more visual communicating and Lollywood influences to attract a wider audience.
From the 1980s to the 1990s, they produced many of their highly successful and critically praised albums.
Funerary architecture is also reflected in the city's residential quarters, which borrow architectural and decorative elements from Multan's mausolea.
Further characteristics are wide prayer halls, round domes with mosaics and geometrical samples and the use of painted tiles.
Further research is needed to investigate the mood differences between special education institution environments and regular education institution environments.
Furthermore, the A-level qualification inherited from the British education system is popular in the private schools of Pakistan.
Furthermore, the same figure in East Pakistan defined their identity in terms of their ethnicity and not Islam.
GCE and GCSE O Level, IGCSE and GCE AS/A Level are managed by British examination boards of CIE of the Cambridge Assessment and/or Edexcel International of the Pearson PLC.
Gama Pahalwan was an undefeated World Wrestling Champion from Pakistan.
Gama Pahalwan's nephew Bholu Pahalwan also represented Pakistan in wrestling.
Garam masala (a mixture of aromatic spices) is a popular blend of spices used in several Pakistani dishes including Bannu Pulao.
Generally, 8–10 courses are selected by students at GCE O Levels and 3–5 at GCE A Levels.
Ghararas, are similar, except the pants are tight at the thighs and flare from the knee.
Ghazal music originally adhered to the Hindustani classical tradition, employing ragas (melodic modes) and talas (rhythmic cycles), typically at a slow, contemplative tempo.
Ghizer is famous for kelawo (also spelled kilao), walnuts dipped in honey and mulberry juice.
Ghulam Ali and Saadi Abbas have won gold medals at the SAF Games.
Gilgit Baltistan is rich in unique food and dishes, each district of Gilgit Baltistan has their cultural dish that symbolizes the people.
Gilgiti cuisine is the cuisine of Gilgit-Baltistan, Pakistan.
Given this disappointing trajectory, increasing public expenditure on education to 7 percent of GDP would be nothing less than a miracle but it is not going to be of godly nature.
Global policy makers are aware that teachers promote human rights and ethics and should receive a course in their teacher training programs about basic human rights.
Going one step further, this also includes the right to recognition as a transgender person.
Goshpi Avari won the medal with her husband, Byram, at the 1982 Games.
Government patronage and funding for sports are at an all-time low, resulting in outdated equipment, obsolete training methods, and dilapidated sports infrastructure.
Government schools tend to be overcrowded and a far distance for children.
Growing censorship policies against displays of affection, rather than violence, came as a blow to the industry.
Gurdwara Dera Sahib and Gurdwara Panja Sahib are other prominent examples.
Haathi Meray Saathi produced and distributed by Eveready Pictures celebrated its Golden Jubilee bringing audience back to the cinema for 66 weeks.
Handball was first played in 1984 in an exhibition event, and was taken up by the Pakistan Olympic Association.
Haroon Rahim was a very successful player, he was the winner of several ATP Singles and Doubles titles.
He [Jinnah] wanted to see the Muslims of the world united under the banner of Islam as an effective check against the aggressive designs of their enemies.
He added another bronze medal to his collection at the 2022 Commonwealth Games.
He also holds a record 13 national titles also being the only individual to win the title 7 times in a row.
He also invented the Ommaya Reservoir medical procedure.
He also stated that even 'democratic' and 'liberal' Indians refuse to carry a single Pakistani news channel on their cable or any Pakistani op-ed writers in their newspapers.
He also went on to say that English would be taught alongside Urdu in schools.
He also won Pakistan's first ever World Championships medal, a silver at the 2023 World Athletics Championships.
He also won a bronze medal at the 2001 World Games.
He also won the highest award for international collaboration of China.
He broke the record for the highest score of any first-time participating country.
He claimed that his mother is Jewish (making him Jewish by Jewish custom) but, his father is a Muslim.
He did exceedingly well eventually ending the Olympic games with a ranking of 25th in the world.
He drives in the ARCA RE/MAX Series and is a former two-time Southwest Formula Mazda Regional Series champion.
He found that over 60% of people in East Pakistan (modern day Bangladesh) professed to have a secular national identity.
He has been awarded 4 time Iranian national techno-entrepreneurship award Sheikh Bahai by Minister of Science and Research, Iran and Young Entrepreneur from the Deputy Minister for Youth Affairs.
He has over 1200 research papers, books and patents attributed to him, that have won him over 34,000 citations and h index of 74.
He has played for Cartier in the St. Moritz Snow Polo World Cup and the Commonwealth team in the Royal Salute Coronation Cup, both of which were won by his team.
He has vast experience of teaching and research.
He has won gold medals at the Asian Games twice.
He holds PhD in Cell and Molecular Biology and holding two MSc (Biotechnology) and MA (Political Sciences-IR).
He is a Fellow of Pakistan Academy of Sciences, and Institute of Mathematics and its Applications (U K).
He is also the official representative of the World Horseback Archery Federation (WHAF) in Pakistan.
He is the first scientist to connect brain cells to a silicon chip.
He is the only Pakistani and one of three non-Iranian who were enlisted as the most talented non-Iranian in Iran by the office of Vice president of Iran.
He represented Pakistan at the 2022 World Games held in Birmingham, United States.
He was elected as Fellow of the Royal Society (London) in 2006 and won the UNESCO Science Prize in 1999.
He was placed at 18th in the Qabaq Track, 19th in the Kassai Track and 20th in the Korean Serial Track out of 45, including qualifiers.
He won two bronze medals at the Asian Judo Championships and two gold medals at the South Asian Games.
Her daughter, Shahida Parveen, possesses her mother's command of the form and her devotional urge.
Her work has earned her national recognition and admiration.
Here is a list of Pakistani fashion institutes.
Here is a list of Pakistani fashion media.
Heritage varieties of vegetables and other produce can also be qualified as "desi".
Hindkowans, also known as the Hindki, is a contemporary designation for speakers of Hindko dialects of Western Punjabi, primarily living in the Hazara region of northern Pakistan.
Hinduism is the second largest religion affiliation in Pakistan after Islam.
Hindus are found in all provinces of Pakistan but are mostly concentrated in Sindh.
Hindus have spoken of vulnerability to kidnapping and forced conversions.
Hindustani classical music forms like qawwali (Sufi devotional music) and ghazal (love poetry) are popular, as are Punjabi, Pashto, Sindhi and Balochi regional music.
His 1966 film Armaan was one of the most cherished Urdu films to ever be released.
His literature is considered to be progressive in its tone and spirit.
His victory was celebrated nationally, including by his daughter, Mahoor Shahzad, an Olympian who represented Pakistan at the 2020 Tokyo Games.
His visit to Pakistan was to coincide with the third Kara Film Festival where he screened his film Paap in Karachi.
Historically, the Sufi missionaries had played a pivotal role in converting the native peoples of Punjab and Sindh to Islam.
Home economics is sometimes taught to female students, whereas topics related to astronomy, environmental management and psychology are frequently included in textbooks of general science.
Home to some of the world's most sacred gurdwaras, Sikhs have a become a crucial part in Pakistan's religious tourism with large numbers coming to the country particularly during festivals.
Honours degrees require four years of study, and students normally specialize in a chosen field of study, such as Biochemistry (BSc Hons.
Horror films were introduced with the release of Zinda Laash, making it the first Pakistani film to display an R rating tag on its posters.
How journalist in Pakistan are openly shot, who speak against the Pakistani Army.
However basic and crude their working conditions were, Kardar believed in his work and in 1929 he produced the first silent film in Lahore under his studio's banner, Husn Ka Daku (Mysterious Eagle).
However it was Shoaib Mansoor to the rescue again with his 2011 film Bol which broke box office records in Pakistan.
However, Pakistan's pan-Islamist sentiments were not shared by other Muslim governments at the time.
However, Pakistan's parliament blocked the bill.
However, Pakistanis do not speak Arabic.
However, Pakistanis with a dish receiver can still watch it and can continue to access its website and web stream.
However, a smooth transition to predominantly pictureless Islamic architecture occurred.
However, after Hyatt's departure at the end of Season 6, the show took a different direction.
However, after the research, male students are more likely to attend low-cost private schools than female students.
However, almost all emigrated to Israel after 1948.
However, before this act, the Pakistani government recognized five different genders.
However, due to a decrease in terrorism in Pakistan over the past few years, as well as an increase in security, many teams have toured Pakistan since 2015.
However, due to the lack of professional football clubs, football was mainly held on amateur basis.
However, fashion magazines have largely managed to avoid this decline and continue to maintain a stable readership.
However, from 1994 to 2003 total print circulation increased substantially, particularly for dailies (3 million to 6.2 million).
However, in 2011, Reporters Without Borders listed Pakistan as one of the ten most deadly places to be a journalist.
However, in Central and Eastern Punjab, as well as in the cuisine of the Muhajir community—Indian immigrants primarily settled in Karachi, the country's financial hub—the food is often spicy.
However, in West Pakistan (current day Pakistan) the same figure professed to have an Islamic and not a secular identity.
However, in recent years some progress has been made in trying to fix this problem.
However, it evolved into a semi-government channel as SRBC did not renew its agreement with SSI.
However, it has seen a resurgence in recent years, with increased political activism and the formation of parties like Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan.
However, it is unlikely to happen because the levels of spending have had remained significantly unpredictable and unsteady in the past.
However, it is widely spoken and understood as a second language across the country and serves as a symbol of national identity for all the Pakistanis.
However, lately, there has been a decline in results, with the national team failing to qualify for both the 2016 and 2020 Olympics.
However, looking beyond binary genders, there is the case of transgender individuals in Pakistan.
However, many students, especially in rural areas, do not have access to the Internet.
However, non-Muslims have served as judges in the High Courts and Supreme Court.
However, the 1980s were also the time of rapid political change in Pakistan, driven by the Islamization policies of President Muhammad Zia Ul Haq, who came to power through a coup d'état in 1977.
However, the Hindko-speaking community belonging to the Hazara region of northern Pakistan are recognised collectively as Hazarewal.
However, the Press Council never came into operation due to the reservations of the media organisations.
However, the press freedom in Pakistan continues to decline.
However, the public did not respond and low attendance at cinemas were recorded as the lower middle class shunned these films.
However, there does not seem to be gender segregation in the schools that were visited in a study cited.
However, there have been numerous reforms to attempt to raise the quality of education in Pakistan.
However, there may be a current possible solution to the gender gap throughout Pakistan.
Hussain Shah won the bronze medal in the Middleweight division at the 1988 Summer Olympics, becoming the country's first ever and to date the only Olympic boxing medalist.
ICFJ has also established the Center for Excellence in Journalism (CEJ) in Karachi, Pakistan.
Ibn-e-Safi and Shakeel Adilzada of Sabrang Digest (1960s) was Pakistan's early popular pulp fiction writers.
Ideas from British and American philosophy greatly shaped philosophical development in Pakistan.
If they do go to school, this also affects their academic performance.
If they do, they are limited due to cultural norms and pressures.
Ifrah Wali made history by becoming the first winner of the Giant Slalom event at any South Asian Winter Games when she won gold at the inaugural games held in India.
Immediately afterwards, the studio released the film Sarfarosh (Brave Heart) in 1930; in 1931, the films Farebi Daku (Mysterious Bandit) and Khooni Katar (The Bloody Dagger) were released.
Imposition of new registration laws for film producers requiring filmmakers to be degree holders, where not many were, led to a steep decline in the workings of the industry.
Imran Aslam, editor of The News International, said the author wrote the script in a "haze of hashish".
Imran Khan has been named in the ICC Cricket Hall of Fame.
In 1946, Sajjad Gul's father Agha G. A. Gul set up Evernew Studios on Multan Road.
In 1947, after Pakistan was created out of British India, Lahore became the hub of cinema in Pakistan.
In 1955, Pakistan's first television showcase occurred near Mazar-e-Quaid on September 16, organized by the American consulate in Karachi.
In 1964, the first official television station began broadcasts in Lahore, followed by Dhaka in 1965.
In 1974, the government of Pakistan amended the Constitution of Pakistan to define a Muslim according to Qu'ran 33:40, as a person who believes in finality of Muhammad under the Ordinance XX.
In 1980 the Heritage Foundation Pakistan was founded to help conserve the traditional Architecture of Pakistan.
In 1982, the federation was affiliated with the Pakistan Olympic Association (POA) and Pakistan Sports Board (PSB).
In 1983, legendary actor Waheed Murad died, which was yet another blow to the cinema industry.
In 1986 it was supplemented by a new blasphemy provision also applied to Ahmadi Muslims (See Persecution of Ahmadis).
In 1987, the Pakistan Television Academy was founded for training in the evolving medium.
In 1990, PTN initiated the first private TV slot through an agreement with Inter-flow, giving rise to Network Television Marketing (NTM).
In 1990, the government launched the semi-government TV network "Peoples Television Network" (PTN) under Shalimar Recording Company, now Shalimar Recording and Broadcasting Company.
In 1990–91, the female to male ratio (F/M ratio) of enrollment was 0.47 for primary level of education.
In 1991-1992, PTV Network introduced a comprehensive satellite broadcasting service, launching PTV-2 as Pakistan's first satellite channel in 1992.
In 1998, PTV collaborated with a private company (Prime Entertainment Network) to initiate PTV Prime, catering exclusively to European audiences and later expanding to American viewers.
In 1999, a Russian-Pakistani joint venture was produced and Samina Peerzada's Inteha.
In 1999, financial losses led to the shutdown of NTM, causing STN to cease CNN International broadcasts and limit programming from BBC World and DW TV.
In 2000, The government of Pakistan opened up new ways for the media industry of Pakistan by allowing private TV channels to operate openly even to telecast their own news and current affairs content.
In 2003, Pakistan fielded a national team for the first time, participating in the Provincial Tournament in Sri Lanka.
In 2003, as much as 109,000 tonnes of tea were consumed in Pakistan, ranking it at seven on the list of tea-consuming countries in the world.
In 2004, Mohammad Tanveer of Pakistan won a silver medal in the Mistral Asian Championship held in Bombay.
In 2005, Channel-3 ceased operations, leading Shalimar Recording and Broadcasting Company to rebrand its TV channel as ATV through a joint venture with SSI.
In 2005, PTV Prime became an independent entity, and in 2006, PTV launched PTV Global exclusively for Americas and Europe.
In 2005, the A1 Team Pakistan was run by Adam Langley-Khan, Khan remained the Team Pakistan driver until 2008.
In 2007, PTV-1 was rebranded as PTV Home, while PTV World went off air temporarily, resuming in 2012-13 as Pakistan's sole English language/pure satellite channel.
In 2008 the Pakistani government partially lifted its 42-year ban on screening Indian movies in Pakistan.
In 2011, Saadi Abbas Jalbani became the first ever Asian Champion from South Asian region at the 2011 Asian Championships in Quanzhou, China.
In 2013, the issue of women doctors in Pakistan was highlighted in local and international media.
In 2014, Pakistan Medical and Dental Council introduced a gender-based admission policy, restricting women to 50% of available seats (based on the gender ratios in general population).
In 2016, LA Weekly ranked Khan as the fourth greatest singer of all time.
In 2018, for first time NUST, Islamabad was ranked among top 100 QS Asia University rankings at 91.
In 2022, Joyland became the first Pakistani film to be screened at the Cannes Film Festival.
In 2022, he created a Commonwealth Games record with a throw of 90.18 m and became the first ever athlete from South Asia to breach the 90m mark.
In 2023, the Pakistan Football Federation launched the National Futsal Cup, the first nationwide futsal competition organised under its authority.
In 644 AD, the Rashidun caliphate conquered Makran after defeating the kingdom of Sindh in the battle of Rasil.
In 712 CE, a young Arab general Muhammad bin Qasim conquered most of the Indus region for the Caliphal empire, to be made the "As-Sindh" province with its capital at Al-Mansurah.
In British colonial India, there were waves of conversions to Christianity among the Chuhra and Chamar between the 1870s and 1930s in the Punjab Province and United Provinces of Agra and Oudh.
In Canada, desis have established sizable ethnic enclaves in areas such as Brampton, Ontario (suburban Toronto) and Surrey, British Columbia (suburban Vancouver).
In Kalash region, women wear embroidered long shirts.
In March 2009, militants attacked the touring Sri Lankan cricket team, after which no international cricket was played in Pakistan until May 2015, when the Zimbabwean team agreed to a tour.
In March, Siyaah (meaning Pitch black) was the first horror thriller film to be released in Pakistan in over 20 years.
In May 2024, Pakistan qualified for the final of the 30th Sultan Azlan Shah Hockey 30th Sultan Azlan Shah Hockey Cup 2024 trophy 2024 trophy in Ipoh, Malaysia.
In May, Pakistan's first 3D computer animated film was released.
In Northern Pakistan, the annual Shandur Polo Festival at Shandur Top is an international event attended by enthusiasts from all over the world.
In November 2004, it participated in the 19th Asian Championship in Hong Kong.
In November 2011, Pakistani cable television operators blocked the BBC World News TV channel after it broadcast a documentary, entitled Secret Pakistan.
In October 1998, Radio Pakistan started its first FM transmission.
In Pakistan, almost everything in Urdu is written in the script, concentrating the greater part of Nastaʿlīq usage in the world.
In Pakistan, gender discrimination in education occurs among the poorest households.
In Pakistan, main courses are usually served with wheat bread (either roti or naan) or rice.
In Pakistan, only the national broadcasters are allowed to use terrestrial airwaves.
In Pakistan, the quality of education has a declining trend.
In Pakistan, the relationship between education and religion is complex and deeply intertwined, particularly in rural and impoverished areas.
In Pakistan, the traditional wedding ceremony is celebrated by wearing different clothes in each wedding event.
In Pakistan, upper and middle-class women in towns wear burqas over their normal clothes in public.
In Pashto cinema, filmmakers were able to get around the censor policies and filled their films with soft-core pornography to increase viewership.
In Punjab and Karachi, during the event of baraat, grooms may wear traditional sehra on their heads, and brides may normally wear a shalwar kameez.
In Punjab, over 3,000 government school buildings have been declared structurally unsafe amid the 2025 monsoon season, putting students and teachers at serious risk.
In Punjabi cinema, Sultan Rahi and Anjuman became iconic figures of this culture.
In September 1965, following the war between Pakistan and India, all Indian films were completely banned.
In a news article published in December 2022, there was an estimated 30,000–35,000 Sikhs in Pakistan according to Gurpal Singh.
In addition to female students being deprived of opportunities, female teachers are also lacking adequate teaching spaces.
In addition to state-sponsored patriotic music, political parties in Pakistan have also harnessed the power of music to rally their supporters.
In addition to the traditional food, fast food is also very popular across the country.
In addition, media is also exposed to propaganda from state agencies, pressured by powerful political elements and non-state actors involved in the current conflict.
In addition, media is also threatened by non-state actors involved in the current conflict.
In addition, the Pakistan Super League has seen games hosted in Pakistan.
In addition, the Persian and Greek influence led to the development of the Greco-Buddhist style, starting from the 1st century AD.
In an effort to stem the tide of street Islamisation, Bhutto had also called for it and banned the drinking and selling of wine by Muslims, nightclubs and horse racing.
In beach handball, Pakistan has won the Asian Championship in 2007 and Asian Beach Games in 2008.
In both cases the gender disparity is decreased but relatively more rapidly at middle level.
In both these instances, the Pakistani military was left with no options to reciprocate because its electronic media were inferior to that of the Indian media.
In comparison to these two countries, Pakistan also has more poverty and inequality.
In conclusion, gender disparity is in most aspects of life, going beyond binary genders.
In contrast only 67% in Jordan, 59% in Egypt, 51% in Turkey, 36% in Indonesia and 71% in Nigeria considered themselves as 'Muslim first' rather than a member of their own nationality.
In contrast to the ailing Pakistani film industry, Urdu televised dramas and theatrical performances continue to be popular, as many entertainment media outlets air them regularly.
In contrast, support for the death penalty for those who leave Islam was only 36% in fellow South Asian Muslim country Bangladesh (which shared heritage with Pakistan).
In contrast, the Barelvi movement, while representing a significant portion of Pakistan's Sunni population, has historically had less institutional influence.
In earlier years, Pakistani films had been met with lukewarm reception and failed to perform well at box offices.
In fact, according to the 2016 Global Gender Gap Report, Pakistan was ranked the second worst country in the world regarding gender inequality.
In fact, in the 1990s, only 20% out of 50% enrollment were females who attended formal education.
In fact, men have a literacy rate of around 67% versus women who have a literacy rate of 42%.
In fact, there is 1100 males to 1000 female ratio.
In fact, there is less money spend on them for health, education, and household expenditures.
In general, females face many other disparities, as well.
In many cases these channels were shifted to obscure numbers in channel line-up.
In media reports, four million is the most commonly cited figure.
In middle school, single-sex education is usually preferred by the Pakistani community, but co-education exists in cities.
In modern households, however, the use of dining tables has become increasingly common.
In partnerships, foreign involvement cannot exceed 25 percent.
In practice, these rules and regulations are not enforced.
In protest over its establishment, the professional journalists organisations refrained from nominating their four members to the council.
In recent decades, however, Qawwali has increasingly incorporated secular themes into its repertoire.
In recent decades, the middle class has increased to around 35 million and the upper and upper-middle classes to around 17 million, and power is shifting from rural landowners to the urbanised elites.
In recent times, Arshad Nadeem is the reigning Olympic champion in Men's javelin throw with an Olympic record throw of 92.97 metres (305.0 ft) at the 2024 Summer Olympics.
In recent years, it has begun flourishing again after years of decline, catering to audiences in Pakistan and expatriates abroad.
In recent years, rosh has taken traction with locals who enjoy the Balochi dish.
In recent years, their numbers have increased with many Sikhs migrating from neighboring Afghanistan who have joined their co-religionists in Pakistan.
In regard to education, there are large differences between male and females.
In regions of South Asia, desi in the context of food, implies "native" or "traditional".
In rural areas only elite women wear burqas.
In some areas of Pakistan they outnumber the public schools.
In spite of being in Punjab, the architecture of city of Multan is more influenced by the architecture of the neighbouring province of Sindh.
In the 'golden days' of Pakistani cinema, the film industry churned out more than 200 films annually, today it's one-fifth of what it used to be.
In the 15th century, the Sikh faith was born in the Punjab region (of present day India and Pakistan) where Sikhism's founder Guru Nanak was born.
In the 1960s and 1970s, calligraphic styles emerged in Pakistan, with notable artists being Iqbal Geoffrey and Sadequain.
In the 1960s–1970s, pop music and disco (1970s) dominated the country's music industry.
In the 1980s and 1990s, pop acts like Nazia and Zoheb Hassan, Vital Signs and Strings gained widespread popularity, defining a new era of Pakistani pop music.
In the 1980s–1990s, British influenced rock music appeared and jolted the country's entertainment industry.
In the 2000s, heavy metal music gained popular and critical acclaim.
In the 2016 edition, Pakistan unfortunately lost to the hosts India, score being 32–31.
In the 2021 World Weightlifting Championships in Tashkent, Talha Talib won the bronze medal in the 67 kg category by lifting 143 kg in the snatch event.
In the 21st century, graffiti started becoming popular in Pakistan, with the emergence of artists such as Sanki King, and Asim Butt.
In the British colonial period, predominantly functional buildings of the Indo-European style developed from a mixture of European and Mughal architectural traditions.
In the Madaklasht valley of Chitral, the Madaklashti dialect of Tajik Persian is spoken by the descendants of ironmongers from Badakhshan who settled there in the eighteenth century.
In the Punjab province, spice blends are characterized by their use of coriander powder.
In the UK, the term 'desi' is commonly used to describe British [South] Asian forms of cultural production such as music, literature, and television programming.
In the United Kingdom, the term Desi pub is used to describe a pub which is owned or managed by an Indian landlord, or which serves Punjabi food.
In the decades following the Islamization regime, restrictions on music in Pakistan eased somewhat, and the rise of the internet opened new avenues for sharing and accessing music.
In the early 2020s there were some 114 satellite TV channels in Pakistan, with most (42) concentrating on entertainment followed by news and current affairs (31).
In the early 21st century, as in the rest of the world, the number of print outlets in Pakistan declined precipitously, but total circulation numbers increased.
In the early decades, Pakistanis held many Asian records including the Asian 100 m and 200 m record held by Abdul Khaliq.
In the early years of the 21st century, a number of Pakistani novelists writing in English won or were shortlisted for international awards.
In the end, a large factor that played into if parents had their children attend these schools were based on their education level.
In the end, even with all of the Pakistani government's efforts regarding educational policies, they have tried in vain to adjust and fix the gender disparities that its country is facing.
In the fierce competitive environment that followed commercial interests became paramount and quality journalism gave way to sensationalism.
In the late 1980s, morning transmissions commenced.
In the late 20th-century and beyond, globalization significantly influenced Pakistani music, with elements of Western popular music merging with local traditions to create contemporary genres.
In the next world championships, they also participated and were champions of their group after defeating France in extra time.
In the northern regions of the country, mainly Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and Gilgit-Baltistan, the Pakol hat is commonly worn.
In the past, there had been around 40,000 teachers being trained in short-term programs per year.
In the same event with his teammate Gulfam Joseph, she won bronze medal in mix team event.
In the wake of Zia-ul-Haq's sudden death and the return of democracy, the way was paved to abate the draconian media laws through a revision of media legislation called the Revised PPO (RPPO).
In their Kafis, Shah Hussain (16th century) and Bulleh Shah (18th century) have adopted a strategy to communicate their thoughts, serving the humanity in a powerful and effective way.
In this project, the team held learning sessions across the country and conducted individual mentoring for journalists to produce stories that meet national and international standards.
In this the secondary school education is referred to as 'High School Education' instead.
In tribal areas female literacy is 9.5%, while Azad Kashmir has a literacy rate of 91%.
In urban areas women typically wear the shalwar kameez.
Inayat Ullah won Pakistan's first individual medal at the Youth Olympic Games in 2018.
Increasing globalisation has resulted in Pakistan ranking 56th on the A.T. Kearney/FP Globalization Index.
Independent groups generally estimate the population to be somewhere between two and five million Ahmadi Muslims.
Indo-Islamic architecture emerged during the medieval period, which combined Indian and Persianaite elements.
Influenced by Iranian culinary traditions, Balochi cuisine is known for its aromatic character while being non-spicy.
Informal education has also increasingly become a field for not-for-profit organisations in the country.
Informal education is also important in Pakistan and regroups mostly school-leavers and low-skilled individuals, who are trained under the supervision of a senior craftsman.
Inhabitants lived in windowless baked brick houses built around a central courtyard.
Initially a local product of only Nagar valley, now it is widely prepared in Hunza and other localitises on the Karakoram.
Initially under Television Promoters Company (TPC) in 1966, it was upgraded to Pakistan Television Corp in 1967.
Instead, it is going to be the one of political nature because it has to be "invented" by those who are at the helm of affairs.
Integration and assimilation are important parts of Punjabi culture, since Punjabi identity is not based solely on tribal connections.
Interest payments for bank accounts were replaced by "profit and loss" payments.
Interest was to be eliminated "as soon as possible".
International Test and one-day matches are played between the Pakistan national cricket team and foreign opponents regularly.
International events such as the Lahore Marathon take place in the country.
Internet Protocol TV Service is provided by PTCL which is of high quality and is quite popular in the urban centres.
Investments must be made in updating building infrastructures, libraries, IT departments, and laboratories.
Iqbal Academy Pakistan is a statutory body of the Government of Pakistan, established and a centre of excellence for Iqbal Studies.
Irreligion is present among a minority of mainly young people in Pakistan.
Irshad Ali with one silver and two bronzes in the Commonwealth Games is one of the most successful shooters at international level.
Islam had reached the Indian subcontinent during the lifetime of Muhammad.
Islam is the largest and the state religion of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Islam is the state religion of Pakistan, and about 96–98% of Pakistanis are Muslim.
Islam to some extent syncretized with pre-Islamic influences, resulting in a religion with some traditions distinct from those of the Arab world.
Islamization policies during the 1980s imposed strict censorship on music and musical expression.
Ismat Beg is a Pakistani mathematician famous for his work in fixed point theory, and multicriteria decision making methods.
Issues such as illiteracy are linked to poverty and lack of fulfilment of basic needs.
Issues within the schools include defective teaching materials and curriculum, substandard and under qualified teachers, and overcrowded classrooms.
Jalaibee (meaning twist) was a caper action thriller film directed and written by Yasir Jaswal, produced by Eman Syed.
Jalaibee was a joint production of ARY Films and Redrum Films in association with Sermad Films and Jaswal Films.
Jalaibee was the first Pakistani film to be shot with the Arri Alexa camera.
Jansher Khan won the World Open eight times, and the British Open six times.
Javed Jabbar's Beyond the Last Mountain, released on 2 December 1976, was Pakistan's first venture into English film-making.
Journalists will study each other's cultures as they are immersed in newsrooms in each country.
Journalists, who encounter threats and attacks, are resorting to self-censorship more frequently to protect themselves.
Junior Rowers from Balochistan, such as Mehardil Khan Baabai and Mirwaise Khan Baabai won many medals.
Junoon became the first rock band to perform at the United Nations General Assembly Hall and only the second Pakistani act to perform at a Nobel Peace Prize Concert.
Kalash people have a rich food culture that includes various types of breads and cheese.
Karachi Golf Club is one of the oldest in the country and it is where the Pakistan Open takes place.
Karachi and Quetta are the major centers of rowing in Pakistan.
Karachi had the most prominent population of Parsis in Pakistan, though their population is declining.
Karachi was leading in publishing of popular pulp fiction.
Karachi’s food is known for its bold and spicy flavors.
Karate is the regular event of National Games, the federation also organizes the National karate championship.
Kardar then decided to focus on direction, not acting.
Kebabs are a staple item in Pakistani cuisine today, and one can find countless varieties all over the country.
Khawaja Nazimuddin, Pakistan's second Prime Minister, argued against equal rights for all citizens in an Islamic state.
Khawaja Saeed Hai was the first Pakistani to reach a Grand Slam tournament, playing at Wimbledon, the US Open, and the French Open where he made it to the third round.
Kheer made of roasted seviyaan (vermicelli) instead of rice is popular during Eid ul-Fitr.
Khmais in their article "Teacher Education in Pakistan" provides the following information: There are many teacher training institutes throughout Pakistan.
Kiran Khan known as "Golden Girl" also came to attention when she won 7 gold medals, 3 silver medals, and 3 bronze medals at 28 National Games in 2001.
Kishmala Talat won Pakistan's first Asian Games medal in shooting at the 2022 Asian Games.
Korma is a classic dish of Mughlai origin made of either chicken or mutton, typically eaten with naan or other bread, and is very popular in Pakistan.
Laacha is worn in Punjab, the lower part of which resembles the dhoti.
Labs are old, outdated, and poorly equipped, and curriculum is very outdated and does not have much relevance to today's world.
Lahore, as the occasional residence of Mughal rulers and a once Mughal capital, contains many important buildings from the empire.
Large scale temples, such as those found in other ancient cities are missing.
Larger monuments dating from later periods included corridors and some designs inspired by cosmology.
Lastly, these trainers do not have any extra qualifications and are not highly qualified to begin with.
Lately, Aisam-ul-Haq created history in Pakistani tennis, as he reached the finals of 2010 US Open – Men's Doubles and 2010 US Open – Mixed Doubles.
Later tombs at the site are sometimes made entirely of brick, with only a sandstone slab.
Lehengas are long skirts usually paired with a short blouse known as a choli, but can be paired with a long shalwar kameez.
Less than 6% of those in the age cohort 55–64 have a degree, compared to 8% in the 45–54 age cohort, 11% in the 35–44 age cohort and 16% in the age cohort 25–34.
Life satisfaction is a characteristic linked to teacher workplace experiences.
Like Balochi cuisine, Pashtun cuisine is traditionally non-spicy.
Like Sindhi kafi, the mood and the theme of Punjabi Kafi may also be termed as secular and humanistic.
Like most Pakistani culinary traditions, it is predominantly meat-based, with chicken and mutton forming the cornerstone of most meals.
Like other languages of this family, Sindhi has passed through Old Indo-Aryan (Sanskrit) and Middle Indo-Aryan (Pali, secondary Prakrits, and Apabhramsha) stages of growth.
Literacy rates vary by gender and region.
Loba is a dramatic form of Pashto folk song, often a dialogue that tells romantic stories or allegorical tales.
Local variations such as Peshawari cuisine further showcase the diverse culinary practices of the region.
Lollywood is one of the biggest film industries in the country.
Lower education institutions such as primary schools suffer under such conditions as the lower income classes are unable to enjoy subsidies and quality education.
Lt.Col Abdul Jabbar Bhatti, Col Sher Khan, and Meherban Karim are Pakistan's most experienced mountaineers.
MPhil and PhD education in Pakistan requires a minimum of two years of study.
Maalik (Urdu مالک) is a 2016 Pakistani Political, thriller film made by Ashir Azeem.
Main Hoon Shahid Afridi was an action-drama film directed by Syed Ali Raza Usama and produced by Humayun Saeed and Shahzad Nasib.
Major art galleries in Pakistan include the National Art Gallery in Islamabad.
Majority of media in Pakistan is privately owned.
Majority of the languages spoken in eastern regions of Pakistan belong to the Indo-Aryan group.
Majority of the languages spoken in western regions of Pakistan belong to the Iranic group.
Males usually wear kufi, Peshawari cap, turban, or Pakol as traditional headgear.
Malik Ata Muhammad Khan is one of the founders of International Tent Pegging Federation to address the Fédération Equestre Internationale (FEI), where he also served as Vice President.
Many Buddhist empires and city states existed, notably in Gandhara but also elsewhere in Taxila, Punjab and Sindh.
Many Pakistani athletes have excelled in various events including the Olympic Games, the Asian Games, the World Athletics Championships and the Commonwealth Games among others.
Many Pakistani leaders and teachers hold conservative beliefs that education policies need to remain aligned with national Islamic ideology, which does not focus on human rights.
Many ancient Hindu temples are located throughout Pakistan.
Many atheists in Pakistan have been lynched and imprisoned over unsubstantiated allegations of blasphemy.
Many children live too far away from school to receive a formal education.
Many film makers, producers, directors shifted to Karachi to avail new opportunities.
Many media activists felt that the new regulations were opaque and had been subject to interpretation by the courts which would have provided media practitioners with clearer guidelines.
Many national and international channels are available via Satellite.
Many operators started satellite and/or cable TV outlets without any supervision by the authorities.
Many prominent Shia Muslim politicians were known to play a decisive role in the creation of Pakistan for decades during the Pakistan Movement.
Many rituals and ceremonies are celebrated according to Islamic calendar.
Many rural Pakistani Muslims associate with pirs and seek their intercession.
Many upper-class women wear a two-piece burqa which is usually black in colour but sometimes navy blue or dark red.
Many writers of fiction borrow from English and vice versa.
Marketing research company Gallup Pakistan, estimated there were 86 million TV viewers in Pakistan in 2009.
Marriages and other major events are also significantly different among the different ethnic groups.
Master of Philosophy (MPhil) is available in most of the subjects and can be undertaken after doing Masters.
Matiullah Jan, a prominent journalist in Pakistan, who highlights the Pakistani Armies atrocities, was picked up from streets in Islamabad.
Mavalvala is best known for her work on the detection of gravitational waves in the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) project.
Meanwhile, Eastern Films Magazine, a tabloid edited by Said Haroon, became a popular magazine for film-lovers in Pakistan.
Meat and grilled meat have played an important role in Pakistan for centuries.
Meat dishes may also be cooked with pulses, legumes and rice.
Meat may be combined with lentils and pulses, whether in simple preparations or in elaborate dishes such as haleem.
Meat plays a much more dominant role in Pakistani food, compared to other South Asian cuisines.
Media coverage of abuses by both the Pakistan government security forces and militant groups is hindered by an ongoing climate of fear.
Meo, also spelled Mayo or occasionally, Mewati, are a Muslim ethnic group originating from the Mewat region of north-western India.
Minced meat is used for kebabs, qeema, and other dishes.
Mir Nawaz won silver and bronze medals at the 2011 South Asian Winter Games becoming Pakistan's first ever medalist at any South Asian Winter Games.
Mirza Kalich Beg has been termed the father of modern Sindhi prose.
Modern Indo-Aryan languages descend from Old Indo-Aryan languages such as early Vedic Sanskrit, through Middle Indo-Aryan languages (or Prakrits).
Mohammad Omer Saleem, a graduate of LUMS, has become Pakistan’s first-ever horseback archer.
Mohenjo Daro, Harappa, and Kot Diji are among the pre-Islamic settlements that are now tourist attractions.
Mohiuddin Nawab ran a 33 year long Suspense Digest series called Devta until 2010.
More complex patterns and Arabic calligraphy with biographical information of the interred body then emerged.
More draconian additions were made to the PPO during the reign of General Zia-Ul-Haq in the 1980s.
More recently, from the 15th century onwards, Zorastrians came to settle the coast of Sindh and have established thriving communities and commercial enterprises.
Moreover, 13 districts have Youth Literacy rates (15–24) of 85% or above according to the 2023 Census.
Moreover, PEMRA regularly reviews and updates its policies to keep pace with technological advancements and changing societal norms.
Moreover, the universities are expensive, due to which the Pakistani students cannot afford higher education.
Moreover, women account for 51% of the overall unemployed population, highlighting a gender disparity in employment opportunities.
Most Pakistani Sunni Muslims belong to the Hanafi school of jurisprudence, which is represented by the Barelvi and Deobandi traditions.
Most common alternative is the General Certificate of Education (or GCE), where SSC and HSSC are replaced by Ordinary Level (or O Level) and Advanced Level (or A Level) respectively.
Most languages of Pakistan are written in the Perso-Arabic script.
Most of Master's degree programs require two years education.
Most of the Sufis in Pakistan relate to the four main tariqa (silsila): Chishti, Naqshbandi, Qadiri-Razzaqi and Suhrawardi.
Most of the languages of Pakistan belong to the Indo-Iranian branch of the Indo-European language family.
Most of the madrasas in Pakistan are affiliated with the Barelvi and Deobandi movements that originated in British India.
Most of the new laws that were anti-democratic and were not intended to promote public activism but to increase his control of the public.
Most of the private media in Pakistan flourished under the Musharraf regime.
Most of these Bahá’ís have their roots in Iran.
Most players of the Pakistani volleyball team hail from this region.
Most print media are privately owned, but the government controls the Associated Press of Pakistan, one of the major news agencies.
Most sports played in Pakistan originated and were substantially developed by athletes and sports fans from the United Kingdom who introduced them during the British Raj.
Most wear lehengas, popularly either with short lehenga cholis or a longer shalwar top.
Most women who carry it nowadays wear it just as a decorative accessory; it's usually worn wrapped around the neck or hanging down the shoulder.
Mostly, on the father's than the mother's education level.
Mother: Because ...to thank ALLAH Almighty for His blessings.
Mr. Yasin Joyia was the first General Manager of (NTM), Which was shut down very soon by PTV bureaucratic conspiracies.
Mughal architecture emerged in the medieval period during the reign of the Mughal Empire in the 15th to 17th centuries.
Mughal architecture reached its zenith in the 17th century during the reign of Shah Jahan.
Muhammad Abbas represented Pakistan at 2010 Winter Olympics while Muhammad Karim represented Pakistan at the 2014 Winter Olympics, 2018 Winter Olympics and 2022 Winter Olympics.
Muhammad Akram and Zahid Ali Pirzada, Hazrat Islam competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics in the single sculls and lightweight double sculls events, respectively.
Muhammad Ali Jinnah had developed a close association with the ulama.
Muhammad Asif is a three-time winner of the amateur IBSF World Snooker Championship.
Muhammad Irfan-Maqsood is a Pakistani researcher and entrepreneur He is known for his work in the field of Techno-entrepreneurship and Biotechnology.
Muhammad Yousuf has scored the most Test runs in a calendar year.
Muhammad Zakaullah is a keen yachtsman and has represented Pakistan at numerous international events.
Mumtu (dumplings) is another popular dish, often served with yogurt and parsley and black pepper, vinegar, chili sauce.
Munir Sadiq sailed into the record books in 1998 Asian Games, as his silver medal in the open enterprise class made him the first sailor to win five medals in the Asian Games.
Musical instruments such as the surnai, karnai, dhol and chang were introduced into Baltistan.
Muslims comprise a number of sects: the majority practice Sunni Islam (estimated at 85–90%), while a minority practice Shia Islam (estimated at 10–15%).
NTM introduced innovative and refreshing programming to Pakistani viewers.
Named after Sikhism, a religion native to Punjab, Sikh Architecture is heavily influenced by Mughal architecture and Islamic styles.
Named the Nigar Awards, the event has become Pakistan's most prominent awards event for filmmaking.
Nationalised in 1972, PTV's experimental color transmission started in 1976.
Nationalism in other parts of the Muslim world was based on ethnicity, language and culture.
Neemkai is a type of folk song usually composed by Pashto women, expressing themes drawn from daily life and personal experiences.
Nepal is not desi, Muluki Ain legal code in 1854 of Nepal under Jung Bahadur defines "desi" as people of Indian origin different from native Pahari people (Nepal).
Nergis Mavalvala is a Pakistani-American astrophysicist known for her role in the first observation of gravitational waves.
Nevertheless, the chairman was appointed, offices now exist and general administration work continues.
New liberal media laws broke the state's monopoly on the electronic media.
New tax rates were introduced, further decreasing cinema attendances.
Newspapers and magazines are published in 11 languages; most in Urdu and Sindhi, but English-language publications are numerous.
Newspapers were scrutinised; critical or undesired sections of an article censored.
No competitors were, however, invited from any foreign country.
Nonetheless, in censuses asking for a clarification on which strand or rite of Muslim faith they most closely align, they usually answer "just a Muslim".
Nonetheless, the lack of box office returns of a Pakistani film has less to do with the film itself but more to do with the severely limited number of screens in Pakistan.
Nonetheless, the sport gained popularity in the 21st century.
Noor Jehan's directorial debut Chanway was released on 29 April 1951, and was also commercially successful.
Not only that but should enforced in the same way as cisgender individuals.
Notable Muhajirs include Liaquat Ali Khan, Abdul Qadeer Khan, Pervez Musharraf, Hakeem Muhammad Saeed and Abdul Sattar Edhi.
Notable musical forms in Balochi culture include sepad, shabtagi, vazbad and zayirak, which are performed in various rituals.
Notable players include World-Record holder Waseem Ahmad, Mohammed Saqlain, and Sohail Abbas.
Now there have been facilities put in place so that the sport can be played, and the Ski Federation of Pakistan now sends out teams to international tournaments.
Numerous regional languages are spoken as first languages by Pakistan's various ethnolinguistic groups.
Nur B. Ali was the first Pakistani Racing driver and Co-founded the MAP.
O-levels and A-levels are usually not taught within the same school.
Occasionally, people in Pakistan dine out at restaurants with foreign-influenced food, such as Western, Arab and Chinese dishes.
Of the several dozen studios across the country, only 11 were operational producing around 100 films annually.
Of these, 68 are indigenous and 12 are non-indigenous.
Offices, schools, and factories were required to offer praying space.
Omer Younas is currently racing in the Formula BMW Pacific and Adnan Sarwar races in Formula Rolon.
On 27 April 2016 Maalik became the first Pakistani film to be banned by the Federal Government after being cleared with Universal rating by all three Censor Boards and running in Cinemas for 18 days.
On 5 July 1977, General Zia-ul-Haq led a coup d'état.
On special occasions such as Eid more heavily embroidered iterations of the shalwar kameez are worn by Pakistani women.
On such occasions, mostly it is wrapped around the waist, neck, or just draped on a shoulder.
On the other hand, Christianity in Pakistan, while increasing in raw numbers, has fallen significantly in percentage terms since the last census.
On the other hand, waee is primarily instrumental and often involves the use of string instruments.
Once again, the more "feminine" gender is targeted and have less access to opportunities than their male counterparts.
One contributing factor to the overall decline of magazines is their relatively higher production cost, as they often require more specialized writers and higher-quality advertising.
One example of this progress recently made in 2010 was that primary education is a legal right for children ranging from five to sixteen years old.
One issue is the lack of physical infrastructure that is a particular barrier for girls being able to access education.
One more PhD thesis says that "It is an assumption that the Bahá’ís do not want to declare their exact population, which is supposed to be more or less 3,000 in total".
One of the first victims of this sociopolitical change was Pakistani cinema.
One of the most notable genres of traditional Pakistani music is qawwali, a devotional musical form.
One of the most well known examples of Sikh architecture is the Samadhi of Ranjit Singh, built in 1839.
One of the movie's songs is directed by Haissam Hussain.
One recurring critique revolves around the perceived susceptibility of PEMRA to political influence, raising concerns about its impartiality.
One tool widely used by the government is to cut off 'unfriendly' media from governmental advertising.
One was the Kargil War and the other was the hijacking of the India Airliner by militants.
Only 18% of Pakistani women have received 10 years or more of schooling.
Only Muslims are allowed to become the President or the Prime Minister.
Only about 67.5% of Pakistani children finish primary school education.
Originally a private project led by Syed Wajjid Ali in 1961, a joint venture agreement with Nippon Electric Company (NEC) was signed.
Other Muslims might have been expected to be sympathetic, even enthusiastic.
Other Punjabi shalwar styles include the Pothohari shalwar, Multani shalwar, Dhoti shalwar, and the Bahawalpuri shalwar which is very wide and baggy with many folds.
Other events are the Tour of Islamabad and the MTB Tour of the Himalayas.
Other examples include the Rohtas Fort built by Sher Shah Suri in the 16th century, and the Tombs of the Talpur Mirs.
Other factors such as VCRs and film piracy had a negative effect on the growth of the industry.
Other films released in 2014 included Tamanna directed by Steven Moore, Sultanat directed by Syed Faisal Bukhari, Dukhtar directed by Afia Nathaniel, and O21 directed by Jami.
Other hits were Syed Noor's 1995 film Jeeva, Saeed Rizvi's Sarkata Insaan and his 1997 film Tilismih Jazira.
Other items of clothing include the jama and the angarkha.
Other languages spoken by linguistic minorities include the languages listed below, with speakers ranging from a few dozen to tens of thousands.
Other masterpieces of this time include the Wazir Khan Mosque, Dai Anga Mosque, Tomb of Dai Anga, Shalimar Gardens and Shahi Hammam in Lahore.
Other notable Pakistani performers included Abdul Jabbar and Tayyab Iftikhar, who contributed to the country’s medal tally.
Other politicians that held prominent roles in the initial decades of the Muslim League include Raja Sahib, Syed Ameer Ali and Syed Wazir Hasan, among others.
Other productions would be independent of any studio usually financed by the filmmakers themselves.
Other qualifications include IGCSE which replaces SSC.
Other regular Hanafi schools include the Jamaat-e-Islami's madrasas, Minhaj-ul-Quran madrasas and others which are neither Barelvi nor Deobandi.
Other sources, including the US Department of State, claim the Sikh population in Pakistan to be at 20,000.
Out of the formal system, the public sectors runs numerous schools and training centres, most being vocational-oriented.
Outside Pakistan, Pakistani cuisine is prevalent in countries where there are large Pakistani communities present.
Ovais was also responsible for putting together the Pakistan National Karting Championship.
Over 150 research papers have been attributed to him.
Over a career spanning nearly five decades, she educated and mentored thousands of students and emerging artists across the country.
Over centuries, the region has developed a distinct cultural identity, shaped by a fusion of Middle Eastern, Central Asian and North Indian influences.
Over the years, PEMRA has been actively involved in shaping and refining policies to address the evolving challenges and dynamics of the media landscape.
Ownership of publications (mainly newspapers and news agencies) is restricted to Pakistani nationals if special government permission is not given.
PEMRA is also involved in media censorship and occasionally halts broadcasts and closes media outlets.
PEMRA's mandate encompasses television, radio, and other electronic media platforms.
PHF secretary lamented over lack of funding could even ban Pakistan hockey team.
PNCA is an autonomous body in the orbit of the Ministry.
PNCA is the Apex Cultural body functioning on a national level.
PTN merged with Shalimar Recording Company in 1991, renaming the TV channel as Shalimar Television Network (STN).
PTV Home, PTV News (both state-owned), and ATV (semi-private) are broadcast on terrestrial and satellite beams.
PTV Network took over STN in 1999, renaming it Channel-3, which began regular transmissions in 2000, accompanied by a satellite beam.
PTV Sports is available in place of PTV Home or PTV News when an important match/event has to be given live coverage as PTV has the rights for sports coverage at terrestrial airwaves.
PTV Sports, initiated recently, airs on terrestrial beams during significant national and international sports events.
PTV-2/World also retained viewership on the terrestrial beam.
Pakistan Academy of Letters was established as an autonomous organization in July, 1976.
Pakistan Alpine Institute is the pioneer of "big wall climbing" in Pakistan.
Pakistan Archery Federation organizes National Archery Championship annually.
Pakistan Bureau of Statistics released religious data of Pakistan Census 2017 on 19 May 2021.
Pakistan Cricket Board also organize a franchise based T20 cricket league known as the Pakistan Super League.
Pakistan Day is a momentous milestone in the history of Pakistan movement.
Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority regularises the TV Channels in Pakistan.
Pakistan Eventing was launched in July 2005 in partnership with The Equestrian & Tent Pegging Federation of Pakistan in an attempt to qualify Pakistan for its first Olympic equestrian qualification.
Pakistan Federation Baseball has hosted the Asian Baseball Cup several times, with the national team also winning the tournament in several editions.
Pakistan Super League is one of the largest cricket leagues of the world with a brand value of about Rs.
Pakistan Swimming Federation is the governing body of swimming in the Pakistan.
Pakistan Tenpin Bowling Federation is affiliated with Asian Bowling Federation and World Bowling.
Pakistan Volleyball Federation is the governing body of Volleyball in Pakistan.
Pakistan also won the 2017 ICC Champions Trophy by defeating arch-rivals India in the final.
Pakistan also won the ACC Asia Cup in 2000 and 2012 and all three versions of the Austral-Asia Cup.
Pakistan competed for the first time at the World Championships in 2009.
Pakistan earned its first Olympic Badminton Qualification after receiving a tripartite invitation for the 2020 Tokyo Summer Olympics.
Pakistan had a strong showing at the championship, securing a total of 14 medals — 10 gold, 3 silver, and 1 bronze.
Pakistan had only appeared in the international stage three times as they were eliminated in the group stage in the 1993, 1995 and 1997 edition of the Sudirman Cup.
Pakistan has a vibrant media landscape and enjoys independence to a large extent.
Pakistan has a vibrant media landscape; among the most dynamic and outspoken in South Asia.
Pakistan has a vibrant media landscape; among the most dynamic in South Asia and world.
Pakistan has a wide variety of breads, often prepared in a tandoor.
Pakistan has around 300 privately owned daily newspapers.
Pakistan has diverse folk traditions, with each region reflecting its local culture and language through its musical traditions.
Pakistan has over 231.69 million adherents of Islam (excluding the administrative territory of Azad Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan), making it the world's second-largest country by Muslim population.
Pakistan has picked up several medals over the years in weightlifting.
Pakistan has qualified for the preliminary rounds of the World Polo Championship three times.
Pakistan has seen success at amateur-level boxing, despite a lack of necessary equipment and facilities.
Pakistan has the second largest number of Muslims in the world after Indonesia.
Pakistan has the world's largest Muslim majority city (Karachi).
Pakistan has tried to make the best of the situation by offering to host its "home" matches on neutral territory in the United Arab Emirates.
Pakistan has won medals at the Olympic and Commonwealth Games.
Pakistan is a major exporter and consumer of rice.
Pakistan is a multilingual country with over 70 languages spoken as first languages.
Pakistan is an ethnically and linguistically diverse country.
Pakistan is known as one of the best manufacturers of the official FIFA World Cup ball.
Pakistan is known as the manufacturer of the official FIFA World Cup ball.
Pakistan is set to host the 2025 South Asian Games.
Pakistan national beach handball team made their debut in IHF World Championship at the 2008 edition, finishing at 10th position.
Pakistan now has a large network of domestic, privately owned 24-hour news media and television channels.
Pakistan plans to increase this figure to 10% by 2015 and subsequently to 15% by 2020.
Pakistan produces its own limited tea in Shinkiari farms; however, it ranks as the third largest importer of tea in the world.
Pakistan still has a low literacy rate relative to other countries.
Pakistan teachers face knowledge gaps regarding human rights due to outdated teacher education curriculum.
Pakistan was founded to advance the cause of Muslims.
Pakistan was runner-up in the inaugural World Twenty20 (2007) in South Africa and won the World Twenty20 in England in 2009.
Pakistan won gold in the 2010 and 2019 edition of the South Asian Games beating India by 37–31 and 30–29 respectively.
Pakistan won the 2020 Kabaddi World Cup (circle style) at the National Stadium in Lahore, after a close contest against India by 43–41.
Pakistan's Constitution and laws were written in English and are now being re-written in the local languages.
Pakistan's First Big Wall Climbing Expedition has been completed by Imran Junaidi and Usman Tariq in September 2013.
Pakistan's Hissam Ali Haider is the highest cap played in the Asian circuit.
Pakistan's Jahangir Khan is widely regarded as the greatest squash player of all time, followed by his compatriot Jansher Khan.
Pakistan's census does not include the 1.4 million citizens of Afghanistan who are temporarily residing in Pakistan.
Pakistan's cricket teams take part in domestic competitions such as the Quaid-e-Azam Trophy, the Patron's Trophy, ABN-AMRO Twenty-20 Cup, and the ABN-AMRO Champions Trophy.
Pakistan's ethnic and cultural diversity, diverse climates, geographical environments, and availability of different produce lead to diverse regional cuisines.
Pakistan's first fashion week was held in November 2009.
Pakistan's literacy rate is lower than its neighbours in South Asia at 60.65 percent.
Pakistan's media sector is highly influenced by the ownership structure.
Pakistan's most successful event in the Commonwealth Games has been Wrestling, where it has won 46 medals, 21 of which have been Gold.
Pakistan's population of children not in school (22.8 million children) is the second largest in the world after Nigeria.
Pakistan's sporting prowess has declined sharply in recent years, while cricket remains widely popular, other sports have suffered due to neglect from both the government and sporting authorities.
Pakistani English writing has had some readership in the country.
Pakistani Radio and Television, which was established in 1964 was also brought under the strict control of the government.
Pakistani Sunnis generally follow the Hanafi school of jurisprudence.
Pakistani architecture is the architecture styles of the Indus Valley region throughout its ancient, medieval and modern periods.
Pakistani art (Urdu: پاکستانی فن) has a long tradition and history.
Pakistani athletes compete in various athletic events.
Pakistani authorities have issued him a passport that stated Judaism as his religion and have allowed him to travel to Israel.
Pakistani brides traditionally opt for lehengas, anarkalis, or shararas and ghararas.
Pakistani cinema entered into a decline during the regime of Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq (1978–1988), who began his Islamization process across the country.
Pakistani cinema has played an important part in the country's culture.
Pakistani cinema includes films made in various Pakistani languages, which reflect the linguistic diversity of the country itself.
Pakistani cinema is made up of various sub-industries, including Lollywood, which makes motion pictures in Urdu and Punjabi.
Pakistani cinemas did not suffer much from the decision to remove the films and instead received better attendances.
Pakistani clothing is the traditional and modern styles of dress worn by the people of Pakistan, reflecting the country's diverse cultures, regions, and ethnic backgrounds.
Pakistani cuisine (Urdu: پاکستانی پکوان, romanized: pākistānī pakwān) is a blend of regional cooking styles and flavours from across the Indian subcontinent, Central and West Asia.
Pakistani cuisine is traditionally centered around meat-based dishes.
Pakistani dishes are known for being aromatic.
Pakistani fashion industry is introducing Pakistani traditional dresses all over the world as cultural representatives and is becoming a reason to introduce international trends in Pakistan.
Pakistani female athletes have also represented Pakistan at the international level, such as Shabana Akhtar, who was the first Pakistani female athlete to participate at the Olympics.
Pakistani films during this period attracted large audiences and had a strong cult following.
Pakistani folk music refers to the local genre of folk music that originates from Pakistan.
Pakistani food makes use of fresh, hand-pounded masalas.
Pakistani literature's main official platform is the Pakistan Academy of Letters, whose work is overseen by a Board of Governors.
Pakistani media has also played a vital role in exposing corruption.
Pakistani media, Film Industry, and Internet have the biggest roles in promoting fashion in Pakistan.
Pakistani music ranges from diverse forms of provincial folk music and traditional styles such as Qawwali and Ghazal to modern musical forms that fuse traditional and western music.
Pakistani players have won the Squash World Open 17 times, and British Open 12 times, the highest by any nation.
Pakistani women wear the shalwar kameez which is worn in different styles, colours, and designs which can be decorated with different styles and designs of embroidery.
Pakistanis compete in various international events notably the World Cup which commenced in 2014.
Pakistanis drink a great deal of tea, locally called "chai".
Pakistanis eat breads made of wheat flour as a staple part of their diet.
Pakistanis wear clothes ranging from exquisite colours and designs to various types of fabric such as silk, chiffon, cotton, etc.
Pakistanis will receive four-week internships at U.S. media organizations.
Parliament through the Second Amendment to the Constitution on 7 September 1974, under Prime Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, declared Ahmadi Muslims as non-Muslims.
Parsis have entered Pakistani public life as social workers, business folk, journalists and diplomats.
Partial successes were recorded with Larki Panjaban and Javed Sheikh's Yeh Dil Aap Ka Huwa grossing over Rs200 million rupees.
Pashto music is predominantly found in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.
Pashtun cuisine is characterized by a preference for rice-based dishes, kebabs, and lamb.
Pashtun dress differ according to region but usually people wear traditional Peshawari chappal as footwear and a Pakol or turban as headwear.
Pashtun women commonly wear shalwar kameez and in some regions, particularly in Tribal areas, women wear firaq partug which is also worn in neighbouring Afghanistan.
Pashtuns are an Iranic ethnolinguistic group and are Pakistan's second largest ethnicity.
Persian still held its status, despite the spread of Urdu, well into the early years of the British rule in South Asia.
Persian was officially abolished as a language of administration with the arrival of the British: in Sindh in 1843 and in Punjab in 1849.
Persian was the official of the region up until the late 19th century when the English passed several laws to replace it with local languages.
Peshawar and Quetta centers followed by 1974.
Peshawari chappal and Khussa are popular foot wear.
Pickles made out of mangoes, carrots, lemon, and other fruits and vegetables are also commonly used to further spice up the food.
Political pressure on media is mostly done indirectly.
Political songs are regularly featured during rallies, gatherings, and protests to energize crowds.
Polo and traditional sports like kabaddi and other well-known games are also played.
Polo is believed to have originated in Persia, and continues to be an important sport within the country with several large annual competitions.
Popular Sufi culture is centered on Thursday night gatherings at shrines and annual festivals which feature Sufi music and dance.
Post-colonial national identity is expressed in modern structures such as the Faisal Mosque, the Minar-e-Pakistan, and the Mazar-e-Quaid.
Pre-school education is designed for the 3–5 years old and usually consists of three stages: Play Group, Nursery and Kindergarten (also called 'KG' or 'Prep').
Presently, the known tariqas in Pakistan have maintained their organisations usually known as tehreeks and have their khanqahs for the dhikr of Allah, as per the old age Sufi tradition.
Prior to 2002, News Agencies in Pakistan were completely unregulated.
Prominent Gilgiti dishes, such as the Chapshoro have gained massive popularity among different parts of Pakistan.
Provincial and regional languages such as Punjabi, Sindhi, Pashto and others may be taught in their respective provinces, particularly in regional language-medium schools.
Public expenditure on education as a percentage of GDP was actually reduced in 16 years and maintained in 5 years between 1972–73 and 2008–09.
Punjabi (پنجابی‎) is an Indo-Aryan language primarily spoken in the Punjab province of Pakistan, with the prominent dialect being the Majhi dialect, written in the Shahmukhi script.
Punjabi Muslims are the third-largest Islam-adhering Muslim ethnicity in the world, globally, after Arabs and Bengalis.
Punjabi is the most widely spoken language in Pakistan.
Punjabi is unusual among the Indo-Aryan languages and the broader Indo-European language family in its usage of lexical tone.
Punjabi men wear the straight cut Punjabi shalwar kameez, kurta, or shalwar.
Punjabi women wear the straight cut Punjabi shalwar kameez, which is most frequently worn.
Punjabis are an Indo-Aryan ethnolinguistic group native to the Punjab region between India and Pakistan.
Purdah is still common in the rural elite and urban middle class, but not among rural farmers.
Pyramidal structures from the 16th century feature the use of minarets topped with floral motifs in a style unique to tombs dating from the Turkic Trakhan dynasty.
Qawwali gained international acclaim through Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, often hailed as "Shahenshah-e-Qawwali" (Urdu: شهنشاهِ قوالی, lit.
Qawwali music is performed by a group of about 8 to 12 musicians, called humnawa (Urdu: ہم نوا, lit.
Quaid-e-Azam Mazar Management Board is responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of Quaid's Mazar and take decisions for Quaid's Mausoleum.
Quetta born Haider Ali won gold at the 2002 Commonwealth Games as a Featherweight and went on to become a professional boxer.
Radio channels are numerous and considered a very important source of information - especially in the rural areas.
Rawalpindi-Islamabad and Karachi centers were established in 1965 and 1966, respectively.
Realising the potential for success in film, Waheed Murad entered the industry then.
Recent report from Reporters without borders implies considerable improvement in the freedom of press compared to the preceding years.
Recently Pakistan has launched Digital terrestrial broadcast in selected areas only in collaboration with China.
Regarding teacher education programs, there are multiple paths in which a pre-service teacher can take.
Regional rivalries, particularly with India, are presented in absolute moral and religious terms, and jihad is often characterized as an armed and moral struggle.
Reporters without borders in its 2020 Press Freedom Index ranked Pakistan number 145 out of 180 countries based on freedom of the press.
Research indicates that female university students face more gender discrimination than males in the capital city of Pakistan.
Rock bands Vital Signs and Strings gained immense popularity amongst the youth.
Roughly twelve per cent of Pakistani Muslims self-describe or have beliefs overlapping with non-denominational Muslims.
Rowers like Ali Hassan, Maqbool Ali, Zohaib Zia Hashmi, and Muhammad Asad Khan have won medals at international events and in International School Rowing events.
SRE is not taught at most schools in Pakistan, although this trend is being rebuked by some urban schools.
STN pioneered the terrestrial beam programming of CNN International in Pakistan, followed by BBC World.
STN's broadcast combined CNN programming, NTM's slot, and limited broadcasts of BBC World and German DW TV, continuing successfully until 1999.
Saadat Hassan Manto (1912–1955), a prominent writer of short stories of South Asia writing mainly in Urdu, produced great literature out of the events relating to the India-Pakistan independence.
Sadequain and Gulgee are known for their calligraphy and paintings.
Saeed Anwar's 194 runs against India remained the record for most runs by a batsman in an ODI for 11 years which was broken by Fakhar Zaman's 210 against Zimbabwe in 2018.
Salad is generally taken as a side dish with the main course, rather than as an appetizer beforehand.
Salam heavily contributed to the rise of Pakistani physics to the Physics community in the world.
Salam holds the distinction of being the first Pakistani to receive the Nobel Prize in any field.
Salam, Sheldon Glashow and Steven Weinberg shared the 1979 Nobel prize for this work.
Saleem represented Pakistan in the 16th World Horseback Archery Championship 2021 held in Tehran, Iran.
Samar Khan is the first woman in the world to cycle on the Biafo Glacier and the first Pakistani to ride a bicycle on snow in Gilgit-Baltistan.
Samina Baig is the first Pakistani woman and the third Pakistani to climb Mount Everest.
Samina is also the first Pakistani woman and the first Muslim to climb the seven summits.
Sara Suleri published her literary memoir, Meatless Days (1989).
Saraiki (سرائیکی) is an Indo Aryan language of the Lahnda group spoken in central and southeastern Pakistan, primarily in the southern part of the province of Punjab.
Saraiki cuisine is known for its flavorful dishes, often incorporating a variety of spices and ingredients.
Saraiki cuisine refers to the native cuisine of the Saraiki people from the Saraiki regions of Pakistan, including southern Punjab, northern Sindh, and Eastern Balochistan.
Saraiki is spoken by approximately 26 million people in Pakistan, ranging across southern Punjab, southern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and border regions of northern Sindh and eastern Balochistan.
Saraiki is to a high degree mutually intelligible with Standard Punjabi and is coshares with it a large portion of its vocabulary and morphology.
School textbooks and libraries were overhauled to remove un-Islamic material.
Schools may also offer drama studies, music and physical education but these are usually not examined or marked.
Scientific theories are also subject to resistance.
Secondary education in Pakistan begins in year 9 and lasts for four years.
Sectarian violence became a recurring feature of the Muharram month every year, with sectarian violence between Sunnis and Shias taking place on multiple occasions.
Security situation of the journalist has improved and the number of journalist killed in Pakistan has also declined considerably.
Separate electorates for Hindus and Christians were established in 1985 even though Christian and Hindu leaders complained that they felt excluded from the county's political process.
Several ancient Jain shrines are scattered across the country.
Several examples of architectural infrastructure demonstrating the influence of British design can be found in Lahore, Peshawar, and Karachi.
Several film industries are based in Pakistan, which tend to be regional and niche in nature.
Several of the larger tombs feature carvings of animals, warriors, and weaponry – a practice uncommon to Muslim funerary monuments.
Shaan is a celebratory song performed during significant life events, such as marriages or the birth of a child.
Shah Hussain Shah is Pakistan's most accomplished judoka, boasting an impressive record of international medals.
Shahid Afridi holds numerous records i.e.
Shalwar refers to loose trousers and kameez refers to shirts.
Shararas consist of a blouse or shalwar, with loose pants.
Shazli Tahir won silver and Junaid Ahmed won a bronze medal in the first CAS International Sailing Championship in April 2008.
She also cycled to Khunjerab Pass, the highest road in the world, and climbed Mount Kilimanjaro with her bike to highlight climate change.
She also received the President's Award for Pride of Performance in 2005.
She had her name in Guinness Book of World Records.
She is a TEDx speaker and climate activist, inspiring youth through her achievements in extreme cycling.
She is also the youngest Muslim woman to climb Everest, having done so at the age of 21.
She represented Pakistan at the 2008 Summer Olympics.
She was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship in 2010 and first Lahore technology reward from Information Technology University in 2017.
She was invited by Bill Gates to visit Microsoft Headquarters in the United States.
She was the first and, until 2010, the only Pakistani woman to have won a gold medal at a major international competition.
She was the youngest Olympic competitor in Pakistan's history, aged 13 at the 2004 Summer Olympics.
She won silver medal in Asian Rifle/ Pistol Championship 2024 Jakarta, Indonesia and became the first woman in the history of Pakistan to get direct berth to Olympics.
Shehzad defeated Indian competitor James Joseph and set a new Asian record with a time of 1:32.30.
Shias allege discrimination by the Pakistani government since 1948, claiming that Sunnis are given preference in business, official positions and administration of justice.
Shias are estimated to constitute about 10-15 percent of the country's population.
Shias have long been a target of Sunni radical groups such as Lashkar-e-Jhangvi in the country.
Shoaib Akhtar holds the record of delivering the fastest delivery in the history of cricket.
Shoaib Mansoor's Bol seemed to have officially "revived" the cinema of Pakistan.
Shoaib Mansoor's Khuda Kay Liye (2007) and Bol (2011) seemed to have ushered in the revival of Pakistani cinema.
Shoba Das of Minority Rights Group International reported around 200 Baháʼís in Islamabad and between 2,000 and 3,000 Baháʼís in Pakistan, in 2013.
Shokat Ali is Pakistan's number one player and an Asian Games Gold medalist.
Shooting in Pakistan governed by National Rifle Association of Pakistan.
Shortly after the creation of Pakistan in 1947, the Pakistan Football Federation (PFF) was created, and Muhammad Ali Jinnah became its first Patron-in-Chief.
Shortly after the creation of Pakistan in 1947, the Pakistan Football Federation was created, and Muhammad Ali Jinnah became its first Patron-in-Chief.
Shortly after the creation of Pakistan in 1947, the Pakistan Football Federation was created, and the nation's founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah became its first Patron-in-Chief.
Shujauddin Malik won a gold medal at the 2006 Commonwealth Games, followed by Nooh Dastgir Butt, who broke Commonwealth Games records as he won the gold medal at the 2022 Commonwealth Games.
Signs of trouble slowly began in the cinema industry as VCRs and piracy became an issue.
Sikh architecture is a style of architecture that was developed under Sikh Empire during 18th and 19th century in the Punjab region.
Since 1960s Pakistan had periodicals called digests.
Since 1982, all officials working in the secretariat are required to wear the national dress.
Since 2008 thousands of Shia have been killed by Sunni extremists according to Human Rights Watch (HRW) and violent clashes between the two sects are common.
Since 2011 from the digital scene two films have stood out with box office success as highest grossing Pakistani films; Waar followed by Main Hoon Shahid Afridi.
Since Pakistan came into being, its fashion has evolved in different phases and developed a unique identity.
Since independence, Pakistan's sports system has developed along multiple overlapping models rather than a single club-based pyramid.
Since it is purely hand embroidered, Balochi Duch is expensive and it takes months to complete a single Balochi suit.
Since the flower 'Chambaili' (lily flower) is the national flower of Pakistan, the film-makers' intentions were to encourage patriotism and nationalism in Pakistan.
Since the introduction of these vibrant TV channels, many major corruption cases and scams have been unveiled by journalists.
Since the terrorist attacks, no foreign cricket teams toured Pakistan until 2015 when Zimbabwe toured for an away series.
Sindhi (سنڌي‎) is an Indo-Aryan language spoken as a first language by almost 14.31% of Pakistanis, mostly in the Sindh province of Pakistan.
Sindhi adopted a variant of the Persian alphabet as well, in the 19th century.
Sindhi cuisine is typically not spicy, focusing on aromatic and balanced flavors.
Sindhi cuisine refers to the traditional culinary practices of the Sindhi people from the Sindh province of Pakistan.
Sindhi music is traditionally performed in two primary styles: bait and waee.
Sindhis are predominantly Muslim, but have a minority Hindu population, making up the largest Hindu minority population in Pakistan.
Six Pakistani policemen escorting the team and two civilians were killed while seven Sri Lankan players and an assistant coach were injured.
Six teams play in the Pakistan first division.
Skyscrapers built in the international style are becoming more prevalent in the cities.
Smaller minority Muslim populations in Pakistan include Quranists, nondenominational Muslims.
Snooker is one of the rising sports in Pakistan, and it has been taken up by many people.
So vulnerable was the film industry to the changing political landscape that in 1976, an angry mob set fire to a cinema in Quetta just before the release of the first Balochi film, Hammal O Mahganj.
Social scientist Nasim Ahmad Jawed conducted a survey in 1969 in pre-divided Pakistan on the type of national identity that was used by educated professional people.
Some National TV Channels are "Pay Cable".
Some claim he committed suicide while the media attributed his death to his disheartened view in the wake of Pakistani cinema's collapse.
Some dishes contain liberal amounts of oil, contributing to a richer, fuller mouthfeel and flavour.
Some educated urban women no longer wear the burqa, while some of them wear Hijab as an alternative.
Some letters that are distinguished in Arabic or Persian are homophones in Sindhi.
Some of the important languages in this family are dialect continuums.
Some of the reasons for this decline was the administration’s lack of attention to football and the departmental system running in Pakistan, which was abolished in other countries after the 1960s.
Some of the widely consumed breads are bilili (walnut bread), jã'u, (walnut bread), and kurau (flour kindled in crushed grape juice).
Some other notable players from Pakistan include Hashim Khan, Torsam Khan, Mobillah Khan, and Qamar Zaman.
Some resist the label, citing historical Indian imperialism and cultural hegemony.
Some vegetable dishes, such as aloo paratha and channa puri, are also consumed for breakfast.
Some were born in secular families while others in religious ones.
Sometimes archaeology and anthropology are taught in textbooks of social studies.
Special education teachers also reported higher levels of life satisfaction.
Sport in Pakistan is a significant part of Pakistani culture.
Sportsmen and officials from East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) and all the integrated Provincial units of West Pakistan took part in these games.
Squash is a popular sport that has a large following in Pakistan, with Pakistan dominating the sport for some time.
Staple foods like barley, wheat, and millet form the foundation of dishes such as chapshuro and thukpa, hearty soups that provide warmth in the cold climate.
Starting in Islamabad and expanding to Karachi and Lahore, STN covered the entire country by the mid-1990s.
Statistics regarding Pakistan's sects and sub-sects have been called "tenuous", but the Deobandi movement holds significant influence, particularly through its extensive network of madrasas.
Strings gained acclaim following the release of their second album in 1992, eventually selling over 25 million albums worldwide.
Structures from the 17th century at the Leilo Sheikh part of the cemetery feature large tombs that resemble Jain temples from afar, with prominent influence from the nearby region of Gujarat.
Students can also attend a university for Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Science (BSc), Bachelor of Commerce (BCom) or Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) degree courses.
Students need more opportunities to deepen their knowledge of how to attend to economic and social needs.
Students pursuing MPhil or PhD degrees must choose a specific field and a university that is doing research work in that field.
Students then enter an intermediate college and complete years 11 and 12.
Sufi poetry has a strong tradition in Pakistan and the poetry of popular Sufi poets is often recited and sung.
Sufis whose shrines receive much national attention are Data Ganj Baksh (Ali Hajweri) in Lahore (ca.
Sufism is a vast term and many Sufi orders exist within Pakistan where the philosophy has a strong tradition.
Sufism, a mystical Islamic tradition, promoted by Fariduddin Ganjshakar in Pakpatan, has a long history and a large popular following in Pakistan.
Sufism, known as Tasawwuf in the Arabic-speaking world, is a form of Islamic mysticism that emphasizes introspection and spiritual closeness with God.
Surveys and documentation of traditional culture is central to the objectives of the institute.
Surviving evidences indicate a sophisticated civilization.
Sweetmeats are consumed on various festive occasions in Pakistan.
TV broadcasting and FM radio licenses were issued to private media outlets.
TVET classes also offer money management lessons, personal and family health practices, Electronical and Electronics and healthcare information.
Tabloids like these got their first controversial covers with the release of Neela Parbat on 3 January 1969, which became Pakistan's first feature-film with an adults-only tag.
Taekwondo was introduced in Pakistan by Korean Consulate in Karachi in 1962.
Tahiri, which is a vegetarian form of biryani, is also popular.
Taimur Hussain has been Pakistan's most successful golfer, as he won the 1998 Myanmar Open, becoming the first Pakistani to win on the Asian Tour.
Talha was brought into the limelight at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, where he finished fifth in the men's 67 kg event.
Teacher education has an impact on the general education of the country.
Teacher education reform is crucial in improving education in Pakistan.
Teacher preparation programs need funding and consistency to produce quality, effective teachers.
Teacher reform needs to continue by establishing resources and investments.
Teacher training programs at universities lack qualified professionals.
Teacher-wise males dominate teaching profession by 2:1 with females unable to teach or being barred.
Teachers are the focal point of establishing progressive education.
Technical and Vocational Education Training (TVET) raised attention because education helps prepare students for future employment.
Teleschool instructional videos are in Urdu and English, Pakistan's official languages and the languages used for the country's national curriculum.
Teleschool is programmed with lessons for kindergarten through high school.
Television in Pakistan started in 1964 and the first live transmission of Pakistan Television began on 26 November 1964, in Lahore.
Television is the main source of news and information for people in Pakistan's towns, cities and large areas of the countryside.
Ten Pakistani journalists will travel to the United States and ten U.S. journalists will travel to Pakistan.
Tennis events are very rare in Pakistan and there is hardly an international tennis event, apart from ATP tournaments.
Tennis is a very popular sport and Pakistanis compete in various international events.
Tent pegging is a popular sport in Pakistan.
That is to say, education sector should be treated as a special sector by immunizing budgetary allocations for it from fiscal stresses and political and economic instabilities.
The 1954 film Sassi, produced by Eveready Pictures, reached golden jubilee status, and the 1959 film Umar Marvi was the first Pakistani film made in Sindhi.
The 1960s is often called the golden era of Pakistani cinema, and it was then that the first generation of Pakistani cinema's legends were introduced.
The 1973 Constitution also created certain institutions such as the Shariat Court and the Council of Islamic Ideology to channel the interpretation and application of Islam.
The 1980s saw the brother-sister duo Nazia and Zoheb Hassan.
The 1990s also saw the rise of rock and fusion bands such as Junoon, Aaroh, and Noori, which became household names and enjoyed immense popularity.
The 1990s saw the rise of other notable bands, including Junoon, Aaroh, and Noori.
The 2007 event was held in January and had an increased prize money purse of $330,000 US.
The 2017 census showed an increasing share in Hinduism, mainly caused by a higher birth rate among the impoverished Hindus of Sindh province.
The 2020 Pakistan Super League events was hosted entirely by Pakistan.
The 2022 edition of Ethnologue lists 80 established languages in Pakistan.
The Alpine Club of Pakistan (ACP) founded in 1974, is the national mountaineering and climbing federation.
The Amb Temples (Urdu: امب مندر) are part of a Hindu temple complex located at the western edge of the Salt Range in Pakistan's Punjab province.
The Athletics Federation of Pakistan (AFP) organises athletic tournaments in Pakistan.
The BBC terms the Pakistani media "among the most outspoken in South Asia".
The Badshahi Mosque in Lahore was built during the reign of Aurangzeb in 1673.
The Baháʼí Faith in Pakistan was present when it was still under British colonial rule.
The Baháʼís in Pakistan have the right to hold public meetings, establish academic centers, teach their faith, and elect their administrative councils.
The Baloch are an Iranian ethnolinguistic group, and are principally found in the south of Balochistan province of Pakistan.
The Balochi Duch from Makran District is one of the many forms of Balochi dresses and is famous all across Balochistan.
The Board has published more than 800 books on different science subjects, dictionaries and educational charts.
The Board was also asked to undertake a number of other tasks for the development of Urdu.
The Board was renamed as “Urdu Science Board” in 1984.
The Brahui, Brahvi or Brohi, are an ethnic group principally found in Balochistan, Pakistan.
The Brahuis are almost entirely Sunni Muslims.
The British, like the Mughals, built elaborate buildings to project their power.
The CEJ serves as a hub for the professional development, training and networking of Pakistani journalists and media professionals from all parts of the country.
The Chaukhandi Tombs near Karachi are similar in style.
The Chaukhandi style came to incorporate slabs of sandstone that were carefully carved by stonemasons into intricate and elaborate designs.
The Constitution also states that all laws are to conform with the injunctions of Islam as laid down in the Quran and Sunnah.
The Constitution declared Pakistan an Islamic Republic and Islam as the state religion.
The Constitution limits the political rights of Pakistan's non-Muslims.
The Deobandi movement is especially prominent in regions such as Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan, where it forms the majority among Sunni Muslims.
The Dupatta is treated just as an accessory in current urban fashion.
The Emperor had forbidden the construction of a dome over his tomb, and thus the roof is simple and free of any embellishments.
The English media is urban and elite-centric, is more liberal and professional compared to the Urdu media.
The Equestrian & Tent Pegging Federation of Pakistan, formed in 2014, is the highest governing body who organizes the sport in Pakistan.
The FIDE has awarded the International Master title to Shahzad Mirza and Mahmood Lodhi.
The Faisal Mosque in Islamabad, one of the largest mosques in the world, is one of the best examples of modern Islamic architecture.
The Federal Bureau of Statistics shows that once the country boasted at least 700 cinemas, this number has dwindled to less than 170 by 2005.
The Federation is affiliated with Pakistan Sports Board.
The Freedom Rally is a yearly off-road race that takes place during the Independence celebrations.
The Frere Hall, St. Patrick's Cathedral and Mereweather Clock Tower in Karachi, and neoclassical Montgomery Hall in Lahore are some examples.
The Higher Education Commission established in 2002 is responsible for all universities and degree awarding institutes.
The Human Rights Council of Pakistan has reported that cases of forced conversion to Islam are increasing.
The Indo-Saracenic style, a fusion of British and Indo-Islamic elements also developed.
The Islamization of the national curriculum during the 1980s further embedded religious content in public education, shaping the broader educational landscape.
The Kalash people practise a form of ancient Hinduism mixed with animism.
The Karachi School of Art, the first art institution in Karachi, was founded in 1964 by Rabia Zuberi.
The Kayaking National Champions Mohammad Abubakar Durrani, Mohammad Shoaib Khilji, and Farhanullah Kakar belong to HDWSA and Pakistan Customs Canoe & Kayak team Quetta.
The Lahore Museum is known for its extensive collection of Buddhist art from the ancient Indo-Greek and Gandhara kingdoms, as well as from the Mughal, Sikh, and British empires.
The Lodi dynasty, the last of the Delhi Sultanate, was replaced by the Mughal Empire (1526–1857 CE).
The Lollywood, Punjabi and Pashto film industry is based in Lahore and Peshawar.
The Makli Necropolis at Thatta, which includes tombs of various rulers, noblemen and Sufi saints of Sindh was built between the 14th and 18th centuries.
The Ministry of Education is also trying to develop instructional programming for radio since Teleschool isn't available to the nation's poorest families.
The Motorsport Association of Pakistan (MAP) is a member of the Federation Internationale de L'Automobile FIA.
The Mughal Empire adopted Persian as the court language during their rule over South Asia as did their predecessors, such as the Ghaznavids.
The Mughal Empire ruled between the 16th and 18th centuries, and saw the rise of Mughal architecture, most prevalent in Lahore.
The Music of Pakistan includes South Asian, Central Asian, Middle Eastern and contemporary Western influences.
The Muslim League leadership, ulama (Islamic clergy) and Jinnah had articulated their vision of Pakistan in terms of an Islamic state.
The NADRA makes it nearly impossible to declare and change the religion to anything from Islam making the statistics somewhat misleading.
The Nagarparkar Jain Temples (Urdu: نگرپارکر جین مندر) are located in the region around Nagarparkar, in Pakistan's southern Sindh province.
The National Hockey Championship is the main domestic field hockey competition of Pakistan since 1948.
The National Library publishes and promotes literature in the country.
The National Monument in Islamabad, built in 2007 is in the shape of a blooming flower.
The National Rowing Championship is the major national event of rowing in the country.
The National Women's Basketball Championship is the Women's Basketball tournament.
The Objectives Resolution declared that sovereignty over the entire universe belongs to God.
The PNNABRO, among many other requirements demands that a publisher provides his bank details.
The PTV channels are controlled by the government and opposition views are not given much time.
The Pakistan Academy of Letters is a large literary community that promotes literature and poetry in Pakistan and abroad.
The Pakistan Amateur Boxing Federation (PABF) organizes amateur matches.
The Pakistan Archery Federation is the governing body to develop and promote the game of archery in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Basketball Federation has been part of FIBA since 1958.
The Pakistan Billiards Snooker Association (PBSA) was formed in 1958.
The Pakistan Boxing Federation (PBF) organises boxing matches in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Canoe and Kayak Federation is the only official governing body of canoe and kayak sports in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Cricket Board controls both the men's and women's games.
The Pakistan Cycling Federation is the governing body of cycling in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority (PEMRA) has been used to silence the broadcast media by either suspending licenses or by simply threatening to do so.
The Pakistan Fashion Design Council based in Lahore organizes PFDC Fashion Week and the Fashion Pakistan Council based in Karachi organizes Fashion Pakistan Week.
The Pakistan Football Federation (PFF) is the governing body in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Football Federation also faced several bans by FIFA during the years.
The Pakistan Golf Federation (PGF) run golf in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Handball Federation is a member of the Asia Handball Federation.
The Pakistan Hockey Federation (PHF) is the national governing body of field hockey in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Hockey Federation Women Wing (PHFWW) is the official organization of women's field hockey in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Judo Federation is the governing body to develop and promote the game of Judo in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Karate Federation is the national governing body to develop and promote the sport of Karate in Pakistan.
The Pakistan National Football Challenge Cup is the national "knockout" cup competition in Pakistani football, run by the Pakistan Football Federation.
The Pakistan National Karting Championship was the first motor racing circuit competition in Pakistan and is used to develop rookie drivers.
The Pakistan National Women's Football Championship is the annual women's championship.
The Pakistan Open tournament is one of the premier events of the sport in the country.
The Pakistan Open was founded in 1967 and became an Asian Tour event in 2006.
The Pakistan Penal Code, the main criminal code of Pakistan, punishes blasphemy (Urdu: قانون توہین رسالت) against any recognized religion, providing penalties ranging from a fine to death.
The Pakistan Rowing Federation was a founding member of the Asian Rowing Federation.
The Pakistan Rugby Union then became an associate member of the International Rugby Board (IRB).
The Pakistan Rugby Union was formally established in 2000 and gained memberships with the Asian Rugby Football Union in 2000.
The Pakistan Sailing Federation is the national body, with Karachi and Balochistan Sailing/Yachting Associations as its major units.
The Pakistan Squash Federation is the governing body in the country.
The Pakistan Super League ranks among the top T20 leagues globally.
The Pakistan Table Tennis Federation runs the sport in the country.
The Pakistan Taekwondo Federation is the national governing body to develop and promote the sport of Taekwondo in Pakistan.
The Pakistan Tennis Federation (PTF) organizes the game in the country.
The Pakistan Weightlifting Federation was formed in 1953.
The Pakistan Wrestling Federation (PWF) is the national governing body of the sport of Wrestling in Pakistan.
The Pakistan government's official chronology claims this as the time when the foundation of Pakistan was laid.
The Pakistan men's national handball team is one of the most successful handball team of South Asia, winning 2 gold and 1 silver medal at the South Asian Games.
The Pakistan national badminton team represents Pakistan in international badminton team competitions.
The Pakistan national ball hockey team is developing and improving, and in 2013 were awarded Pool A status, competing for gold in St. John's, Newfoundland.
The Pakistan national ball hockey team is primarily composed of Canadian Pakistanis, born in Canada or with links to that nation.
The Pakistan national field hockey team has won 3 gold medals at the Olympic Games, and lifted the Hockey World Cup 4 times, being the country with most World Cups till the present.
The Pakistan national futsal team was formed in 2025 when Pakistan participated in the 2026 AFC Futsal Asian Cup qualifiers for the first time.
The Pakistan women's national table tennis team in 1972, competed in the inaugural ATTU Asian Table Tennis Championships held in Beijing, China.
The Pakistani Constitution guarantees freedom of expression and the basic premise for media freedom.
The Pakistani comedy thriller film was co-written and directed by Nabeel Qureshi as his directorial debut.
The Pakistani government intensified its grip on the media, leading to media professionals experiencing heightened coercion, censorship, and a surge in journalist arrests.
The Pakistani media landscape reflects a multi-linguistic, multi-ethnic and class-divided society.
The Pass bachelor's degrees are now slowly being phased out for Honours throughout the country.
The Press Council Ordinance has a direct link to the Press, Newspapers, News Agencies and Books Registration Ordinance (PNNABRO) of 2002.
The Punjab province is home to various ethnic groups, resulting in variations in cuisine across the region.
The Quran, Sunnah, Hadith and Muslim theology is taught in Arabic with Urdu translation.
The Rajput architecture makes an extensive use of Jalis, Chatris and Jharokhas.
The SSC exams consist of a total of 1100 marks divided between 9th and 10th.
The Saraikis are an Indo-Aryan ethnolinguistic group inhabiting parts of central and southeastern Pakistan, primarily in the southern part of the Pakistani province of Punjab.
The Sehwan Sharif shrine was the site of a suicide bombing in 2017 carried out by the Islamic State.
The Shah Jahan Mosque in Thatta reflects a heavy Persian influence.
The Shaheed Benazir Bhutto International Boxing Tournament took place in the KPT Benazir Sports Complex in Karachi, Pakistan from 1–8 January 2010.
The Shandur Polo Ground besides Shandur Pass is the world's highest, at approximately 3,734 metres (12,251 ft).
The Shandur polo ground at Shandur Pass is the world's highest, at approximately 3,734 metres (12,251 ft).
The Shri Katas Raj Temples (Punjabi, Urdu: شری کٹاس راج مندر) also known as Qila Katas (قلعہ کٹاس), is a complex of several Hindu temples connected to one another by walkways.
The Shri Varun Dev Mandir and Sharada Peeth are other examples of Hindu temple architecture in Pakistan.
The Sindhi bride wear red color heavy embroidered Lehenga Choli/Cholo as wedding dress, with two veils and a lot of jewelries and ornaments.
The Sindhi kafi is an indigenous musical form of Sindh and Punjab, Pakistan.
The Sindhi kafi is short, simple, and lucid in composition and tone.
The Sindhis are an Indo-Aryan ethnolinguistic group who speak the Sindhi language and are native to the Sindh province of Pakistan.
The Ski Federation of Pakistan, created in December 1990, runs the sport.
The Sufi poets Shah Abdul Latif, Bulleh Shah, Mian Muhammad Bakhsh, and Khawaja Farid enjoy considerable popularity in Pakistan.
The Tomb of Anarkali, Hiran Minar and Begum Shahi Mosque also date back to this period.
The Tomb of Jahangir, the fourth Mughal Emperor, was completed in 1637 during the reign of his son and successor Shah Jahan.
The Tour de Pakistan International Cycling Race starts from Karachi and ends in Peshawar, with about 150 domestic and international cyclists taking part every year.
The UK Foreign Office states that it is vital that the right to freedom of expression continues to be upheld by the Pakistani Government.
The Urdu alphabet is a right-to-left alphabet.
The Urdu media, particularly the newspapers, are widely read by the masses - mostly in rural areas.
The Urdu version Musafir did not do well at the box office.
The Urs (death anniversary) of Sufi saints accounts for the largest gathering upon their shrines held annually by the devotees.
The World Open professional championship was inaugurated in 1976 and serves as the main competition today.
The activities of PNCA are performed on the basis of policies framed by its Board of Governors headed by the Minister for National Heritage & Integration with 28 members.
The aims and objectives of the Academy are to promote and disseminate the study and understanding of the works and teachings of Allama Iqbal.
The annual Shandur Polo Festival is an international event attended by enthusiasts from all over the world.
The arrival of Islam in today's Pakistan - first in Sindh - during the 8th century CE meant a sudden end of Buddhist architecture.
The arrival of Islam in what is today Pakistan meant the gradual end of Buddhist architecture in the area and a transition to Islamic architecture.
The arrival of Islam through trade and conquests by various Arab, Turkic, Persian, and Afghan dynasties influenced the local cuisine of the region to a great degree.
The attacks are generally attributed to banned militant organisations.
The author argues if linear trend were maintained since 1972, Pakistan could have touched 4 percent of GDP well before 2015.
The author suggests that little success can be made unless Pakistan adopts an "unconventional" approach to education.
The authority has the power to grant and revoke licenses, ensuring that broadcasters adhere to the established regulations.
The authority is entrusted with the task of fostering a media environment that adheres to ethical and professional standards while promoting freedom of expression.
The bait style is a form of vocal music, characterized by two variations: sanhoon (low voice) and Graham (high voice).
The basic family unit is the extended family, although for socio-economic reasons there has been a growing trend towards nuclear families.
The building has gilded fluted domes and cupolas, and an ornate balustrade around the upper portion of the building.
The buildings are usually constructed out of red sandstone and white marble, and make use of decorative work such as pachin kari and jali-latticed screens.
The burqa is also not worn by rural peasant women who work in the fields.
The burqa is the most visible dress in Pakistan.
The ceilings are decorated with glass mosaic work.
The census excludes data from Gilgit-Baltistan and Azad Kashmir, therefore Shina and Balti population might not be exact.
The city of Islamabad was designed by Greek architect Constantinos Apostolou Doxiadis and completed in 1966.
The clothing of Azad Kashmir includes various styles of the shalwar kameez.
The common ancestor of all of the languages in this family is called Proto-Indo-Iranian—also known as Common Aryan—which was spoken in approximately the late 3rd millennium BC.
The complex is located in the Potohar Plateau region of Pakistan's Punjab province.
The complexity and diversity of the diaspora necessitate recognizing multiple identities and resisting the tendency to homogenize or erase particular communities.
The conservative newspaper, Nawa-i-Waqt, established in 1940 was the mouthpiece of the Muslim elites who were among the strongest supporters for an independent Pakistan.
The consumption of tea in Pakistan, called chai (چائے) is of central significance to Pakistani culture.
The corporatization of sports in Pakistan has led to a lack of investment in nurturing talented athletes and providing adequate facilities and training.
The country is dotted with numerous ancient and disused Buddhist stupas along the entire breadth of the Indus River that courses through the heart of the country.
The country was subjected to alternating military and democratic rule - but has managed to thrive on basic democratic norms.
The cricket team (known as Shaheen) won the Cricket World Cup held in 1992; it was runner-up once, in 1999.
The cuisine of Pakistan also maintains many Mughlai cuisine influences within its recipes and cooking techniques, particularly the use of dried fruits and nuts.
The cuisine of the Chitrali people is influenced by their geography and location.
The culinary traditions of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa are deeply rooted in Pashtun or Afghan culture and are heavily influenced by Iranic culinary traditions.
The culture of Pakistan (Urdu: ثقافتِ پاکستان, romanized: S̱eqāfat-e Pākistān) lies at the intersection of Turco-Persian, Arab, and Hindustani cultural traditions.
The curriculum is usually subject to the institution.
The curriculum portrays Pakistan as a leader of the Muslim world in opposition to the West.
The death of Waheed Murad in 1983 was only the start of the demise of iconic cinema stars of the 60s which further led to decreased interest.
The definition of literacy has been undergoing changes, with the result that the literacy figure has vacillated irregularly during the various censuses.
The desi gharanas further developed into the present-day adavus.
The dialect of English spoken in Pakistan is known as Pakistani English.
The director of his unfinished film Hero, employed 'cheat shots' to complete the film and released to sold out cinemas across the country.
The dome is decorated with Naga (serpent) hood designs - the product of Hindu craftsmen that worked on the project.
The dramas and plays often deal with themes from everyday life, often with a humorous touch.
The dupatta is also employed as a form of modesty—although it is made of delicate material, it obscures the upper body's contours by passing over the shoulders.
The earliest example in Pakistan is the Lahore Fort, which had existed at least since the 11th century but was completely rebuilt by various Mughal Emperors like Akbar and Jahangir (1556–1627) .
The earliest example of a mosque from the days of infancy of Islam in South Asia is the Mihrablose mosque of Banbhore, from the year 727, the first Muslim place of worship in South Asia.
The early 2000s saw the arrival of progressive metal, progressive rock, and psychedelic rock with bands such as Entity Paradigm and Mizraab.
The early medieval period (642–1219 CE) witnessed the spread of Islam in the region.
The education is based solely on cramming and the students lack professional as well as communicational skills, when they graduate from an institution.
The emergence of powerful civil society actors was unprecedented in Pakistani history.
The ethnonym belongs in the endonymic category (i.e., it is a self-appellation).
The event, held from May 26 to 31, featured competitions on indoor rowing machines such as the Concept2 ergometer.
The expenditure on education is around 2% of Pakistan's GDP.
The fashion industry has flourished in the changing environment of the fashion world.
The federation organizes the annual National Taekwondo Championship.
The federation was established in 1977 and granted affiliation by World Taekwondo.
The film Bin Roye was later adapted into a television series with the same name, that premiered on Hum TV on 2 October 2016.
The film became the first to complete a 75-week screening at cinemas throughout the country, thus attaining a platinum jubilee status.
The film collected over ₨2.65 crore (US$260,000) at the box office.
The film depicts events surrounding the war on terror in Pakistan, including the attack on a Police Academy in Lahore in 2009.
The film focuses on three eleven-year-old friends, who rise from the unlikeliest of places to save their community from the evils that plague it.
The film had a good number of public previews came out well on them collecting Rs.
The film industry by now was on the verge of collapse as people began turning away from cinema.
The film industry of Pakistan, consisting of motion pictures, has had a large effect on Pakistani society and culture since the nation's independence.
The film is said to have given birth to Pakistani pop music, by introducing playback singing legends like composer Sohail Rana and singer Ahmed Rushdi.
The film is set in a fictional town called Roshan Basti (town of light).
The film opened to a highly successful box office weekend and went on to run for several weeks, making it the third-highest-grossing film of 2016, earning Rs.22.50 crores in total.
The film remained mediocre in the cinema.
The film starred Humayun Saeed, Javed Shaikh and Noman Habib in the lead roles.
The film starred Javed Sheikh, Fahad Mustafa, Mohsin Abbas Haider with supporting cast of Urwa Hocane, Kubra Khan and Salman Shahid.
The film stayed in cinemas for over 400 weeks, with its last screening at the Scala in Karachi, where it ran for more than four years.
The film was a political drama exploring the subject of political corruption in Pakistan.
The film was about a dissociative identity disorder patient who uses black magic against unsuspecting relatives.
The film was also released internationally, including India, where it became the first Pakistani film released there after four decades.
The film was banned in Pakistan by the Federal Government on 27 April 2016 for endangering democracy.
The film was based on the original novel Bin Roye Ansoo by Farhat Ishtiaq and released worldwide on 18 18 July 2015, the day of Eid-ul-Fitr.
The film was only mildly successful at cinemas, but it managed to establish Lahore as a functioning center of a film industry.
The film was released on 8 April 2016 in cinemas across Pakistan.
The film was theatrically released ARY Films.
The final results showed the total population of Pakistan to be 207.684 million, a reduction of 68,738 people or 0.033% against provisional results.
The first National Games were held at Polo Ground, Karachi from 23 to 25 April 1948.
The first ever Pakistani-film produced was Teri Yaad, directed by Daud Chand in 1948.
The first film ever produced in Pakistan was Husn Ka Daku in 1929, directed by Abdur Rashid Kardar in Lahore.
The first is the 'populist' Sufism of the rural population.
The first known usage of the Sanskrit word is found in the Natya Shastra (~200 BCE), where it defines the regional varieties of folk performing arts, as opposed to the classical, pan-Indian margi.
The first major English writer to receive this national honour was Alamgir Hashmi.
The first novel of Mohammed Hanif, A Case of Exploding Mangoes (2008) was shortlisted for the 2008 Guardian First Book Award.
The first option includes 12 years of schooling.
The first season mainly featured live-recorded performances of pop and rock songs.
The first step in introducing media laws in the country was done by the then military ruler and President Ayub Khan who promulgated the Press and Publication Ordinance (PPO) in 1962.
The first television station began broadcasting from Lahore on 26 November 1964.
The focus on cricket has overshadowed other sports, exacerbating the decline across various disciplines.
The folk music invokes the traditions and tells stories of agricultural life, love, and joy.
The following is a list of Pakistani models.
The following is a list of notable Pakistani clothing companies and brands.
The following year, Eveready Pictures was established by J.C. Anand, which would go on to become the largest film production and distribution company in Pakistan.
The food in this region is traditionally moderately spicy.
The forts of Derawar and Umerkot were built by Rajput clans during the medieval era, and are examples of early Rajput architecture.
The founding father of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, married Ratti Bai who belonged to a Parsi family before her conversion to Islam.
The gender disparity has decreased comparatively rapidly at secondary school.
The gender disparity in enrollment at secondary level of education was 0.4 in 1990-91 and 0.67 in 1999–2000, showing that the disparity decreased by 67.5% in the decade.
The genre has adapted and evolved over time in response to shifting cultural norms and global influences.
The governing body for Kabaddi in Pakistan is Pakistan Kabaddi Federation.
The governing body of polo in Pakistan is the Pakistan Polo Association.
The government felt that it was losing millions of rupees by not 'regulating' the mushrooming cable TV business.
The government forcibly closed most of the cinemas in Lahore.
The government's decision to open up the media sector allowed private television channels to operate openly, telecasting their own news, current affairs, and entertainment content.
The government-owned Pakistan Broadcasting Corporation (PBC) was formed on 14 August 1947, the day of Pakistani independence.
The growing demand of popular programming for South Asians caused MTV to launch the desi-targeted television channel MTV Desi.
The headquarters of PCKF is based in the Hayat Durrani Water Sports Academy at Hanna Lake Quetta, one of the major canoe / kayak paddling and Rowing center in Pakistan.
The high point of this era was reached with the culmination of the Gandhara style.
The high point of this era was the Gandhara style.
The highest football division in Pakistan is the Pakistan Premier League.
The highest football division in the country is the Pakistan Premier League.
The hockey team also failed to qualify for the 2023 World Cup.
The indigenous movie industry, based in Lahore and known as "Lollywood", produces roughly forty feature-length films a year.
The industry was pronounced dead by the start of the new millennium.
The initiative to establish the television industry stemmed from the National Education Commission, backed by President Ayub Khan.
The justification was just as much a desire to counter the Indian media power, as it was a wish to set the media "free" with the rights that electronic media had in liberal, open societies.
The kameez can be of varying sleeve length, shirt length, and necklines.
The language is spoken among a significant overseas diaspora, particularly in Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
The language of instruction depends on the nature of the institution itself, whether it is an English-medium school or an Urdu-medium school.
The largest Quranist organization in Pakistan is Ahle Quran, followed by Bazm-e-Tolu-e-Islam.
The late Zahida Parveen was a master of kafi singing.
The latest landmark for Pakistan rugby is that universities like Lahore University of Management and Sciences (LUMS) and Bahria University Islamabad have formed teams as well.
The latter also spearheaded Stuckism in Pakistan.
The latter rivaled the engineering skill of the Romans some 2,000 years later.
The law does not permit foreigners to obtain a 'Declaration' to run a news agency or any media station.
The law empowered the authorities to confiscate newspapers, close down news providers, and arrest journalists.
The laws are, however, detrimental to democracy reform, and represent a potential threat to the future of Pakistan and democracy.
The liberalisation not only transformed the television landscape but also played a crucial role in shaping public discourse and access to information.
The liberalisation of the electronic media in 2002 was coupled to a bulk of regulations.
The main temple is roughly 15 to 20 metres tall, and has three stories, with stairwells leading to inner ambulatories.
The major architectural styles popular in the past were Temple, Indo-Islamic, Mughal and Indo-Saracenic architecture, all of which have many regional varieties.
The major goals of TVET include investing in the country's workforce to stimulate the economy and redistribute the wealth.
The majority are Sunni (85–90%) while Shias make up around 10-15%.
The majority are Sunni (estimated at 85–90%), with an estimated 5–10% Shia.
The majority of Muhajirs are settled in Sindh mainly in Karachi and Hyderabad.
The majority of Pakistan's languages belong to the Indo-Iranian group of the Indo-European language family.
The majority of Sunnis follow the Hanafi school of jurisprudence while a minority belongs to the Ahl-i Hadith school of thought.
The majority of the Pakistani Christian community consists of Punjabis who converted during the British colonial era and their descendants.
The majority of the Pakistani Muslims belong to Sunni Islam.
The majority of the discovered brick constructions are public buildings such as bath houses and workshops.
The majority of them were born in Pakistan within the last four decades and mostly belong to the Pashtun ethnic group.
The material is thick cloth with a very wide shalwar to protect against the hot winds of the dry Sulaiman Range and Kharan Desert.
The meat dishes in Pakistan include beef, mutton, poultry and seafood dishes.
The meat is usually cut in 3 cm cubes and cooked in a stew.
The media became an important actor in the process that led to fall of Musharraf and his regime.
The media in Pakistan dates back to pre-partition years of British India, where a number of newspapers were established to promote a communalistic or partition agenda.
The medieval developments of the classical Indian dance and music led to the introduction of desi gharanas, in addition to the classical gharanas codified in Natya Shastra.
The middle class neglected the 'increasingly dilapidated and rowdy cinemas'.
The military thought it could still control the media and harness it if it strayed from what the regime believed was in the national interest - and in accordance with its own political agenda.
The mosque is an important religious as well as social institution in Pakistan.
The most important building from this era still standing is the tomb of Shah Rukn-i-Alam in Multan.
The most important characteristic of this style is the Iwan, walled on three sides, with one end entirely open.
The most important of the few completely discovered buildings of Islamic architecture is the tomb of the Shah Rukn-i-Alam (built 1320 to 1324) in Multan.
The most notable Muslim Sufi orders in Pakistan are the Qadiriyya, Naqshbandiya, Chishtiya and Suhrawardiyya silsas (Muslim Orders) and they have a large amount of devotees in Pakistan.
The most prominent Parsis of Pakistan today include Ardeshir Cowasjee, Byram Dinshawji Avari, Jamsheed Marker, as well as Minocher Bhandara.
The mystic poetry of the Sufi saints is usually sung in this mode.
The name "Sindhi" is derived from Sindhu, the original name of the Indus River.
The nation would make its first badminton debut in the Olympics when national player Mahoor Shahzad represented the country in the women's singles discipline.
The national dress of Pakistan is the Persian origin shalwar kameez, a unisex garment widely-worn around South Asia, and national dress, of Pakistan.
The national poet of Pakistan, Muhammad Iqbal, wrote poetry in Urdu and Persian.
The national team was established in 1953.
The nature of Pakistani literature soon after independence aroused controversy among writers due to its being centred heavily on the negative events related to the independence movement.
The necropolis at Makli gives a good example of Sindhi architecture.
The newfound freedom and autonomy provided to private broadcasters paved the way for innovative and varied content, reflecting the rich culture of the nation.
The newspaper Dawn, founded by Muhammad Ali Jinnah and first published in 1941, was dedicated to promoting for an independent Pakistan.
The number of Buddhist voters was 1,884 in 2017 and are mostly concentrated in Sindh and Punjab.
The number of madrassas are popular among Pakistan's poorest families in part because they feed and house their students.
The official religion of Pakistan is Islam, as enshrined by Article 2 of the Constitution, and is practised by an overwhelming majority of 96.35% of the country's population.
The once romantic and lovable image of Pakistani cinema in the 1960s and 1970s had transformed into a culture of violence and vulgarity by the 1980s.
The one in Peshawar still exists, although the building is not being used for any religious purpose.
The opening of the media market led to the mushrooming of satellite channels in Pakistan.
The origin of football in Pakistan can be traced back to the mid-nineteenth century when the game was introduced during the British Raj.
The origins of the term refer merely to the speakers of Indo-Aryan languages rather than to any particular ethnic group.
The other agencies was pushed into severe crisis and had to seek financial support from the government.
The other options range from 14 to 16 years of schooling.
The overall educational content was found to marginalize minorities, reinforce traditional gender roles, and promote ideological narratives.
The performance incorporates various musical instruments alongside hand clapping by the singers.
The playback singer Ahmed Rushdi's career also began during this period, after singing his first song in Bander Road Se Kemari.
The policy document is blank on this question and does not discuss the assumptions that form the basis of this target.
The possible solution would be low-cost private schools or LCPSs which may correct the prevailing gender inequalities in Pakistan.
The present Christian population in Pakistan is ranged between 2 and 3 million as per as recent (2020–21) year estimation by various institution and NGOs of Pakistan.
The president of the Muslim League, Chaudhry Khaliquzzaman, announced that Pakistan would bring together all Muslim countries into Islamistan-a pan-Islamic entity.
The program will include events and opportunities to experience U.S. life, showcasing its diversity.
The proliferation of the media in Pakistan since 2002 has brought a massive increase in the number of domestic and foreign journalists operating in Pakistan.
The regime also banned music for reasons such as "endorsing alcohol consumption" if lyrics mentioned alcohol, or "obscenity" if a male and female were shown standing close or dancing.
The region of Balochistan is believed to have been a stronghold of Zoroastrianism before the advent of Islam.
The release of Khuda Kay Liye is seen by many as the revival of cinema in Pakistan and the cementing of Karachi as the Pakistani film and showbiz capital.
The resolution was presented by A. K. Fazlul Huq.
The results of the 2023 Census of Pakistan thus are significant in the first official Sikh count since the formation of Pakistan as a sovereign nation.
The rise of Buddhism and the influence of Greek civilisation led to the development of a Greco-Buddhist style, starting from the 1st century CE.
The role as the first president of the Muslim League and its main financial backer during its earlier years was undertaken by Sir Aga Khan III, an Ismaili by faith.
The root for the article 19 freedom of expression traced from South Asia when any body was directly sentenced to death if they uttered a single word against the government.
The roots of the religion in the region go back to the first days of the Bábí religion in 1844, with Shaykh Sa'id Hindi who was from Multan.
The satirical tone of these kafis, sometimes, depicts true picture of political situations and social conditions of their own days.
The script is used in Pakistan today, albeit unlike most other native languages of Pakistan, the Naskh style is more common for Sindhi writing than the Nasta'liq style.
The second level of Sufism in Pakistan is 'intellectual Sufism' which is growing among the urban and educated population.
The second lowest in South Asia after Afghanistan.
The second option available would include 12 years of schooling and four years of schooling to receive a Bachelor of Education for either elementary or secondary educators.
The shared tradition of Urdu literature and English literature of British India was inherited by the new state.
The shift has been seen by many as the leading cause for what has been referred to as the "resurgence of Pakistani cinema".
The shutdown came after the network attempted to air allegations on the involvement of Inter-Services Intelligence in the attempted assassination of its leading anchor Hamid Mir.
The site consists of a collection of Jain temples.
The size of the dome denoted the prominence of the buried individual, with undersides embellished with carved floral patterns.
The society in Pakistan is profoundly patriarchal.
The song "Ko Ko Korina" sung by Ahmed Rushdi in 1966 is considered to be the first pop song of Pakistan.
The sport is growing in the South Asian community there.
The sport is the major event of the National Horse & Cattle Show held at Fortress Stadium Lahore.
The standard national system of education is mainly inspired by the English educational system.
The state, however, no longer publishes daily newspapers; the former Press Trust sold or liquidated its newspapers and magazines in the early 1990s.
The study asked participants questions about their emotional intelligence and life satisfaction.
The study compares Indonesia, Malaysia and Pakistan.
The study found that the literacy rate in Indonesia is 90%, in Malaysia it's 89% and in Pakistan it's 60.65%, which is significantly lower.
The study revealed that the general mood of the workplace is correlated with emotional intelligence.
The tandoori style of cooking is common throughout rural and urban Pakistan, and also has strong roots in neighboring India, Iran and Afghanistan.
The teachers have a lower salary package as well because they are not requiring them to come into work.
The team is ranked within the top 50 volleyball nations by FIVB and has won two Central Asian titles, and a bronze medal at the 1962 Asian Games.
The team qualified for the World Baseball Classic qualifier round for the first time where they lost 0–10 against Brazil and 0–14 while competing against Great Britain in 2016.
The team won the first SAARC Baseball Championship in 2011.
The team would later participate in the 2022 Commonwealth Games mixed team event through a bipartite invitation.
The television series Pepsi Battle of the Bands was instrumental in launching Entity Paradigm, Aaroh, and the Mekaal Hasan Band, all of whom competed in the inaugural edition of the show in 2002.
The temple complex surrounds a pond named Katas which is regarded as sacred by Hindus.
The temple complex was built in the 7th to 9th centuries CE during the reign of the Hindu Shahi empire.
The temples were inscribed on the tentative list for UNESCO World Heritage status in 2016 as the Nagarparkar Cultural Landscape.
The term Muhajir is also used for descendants of Muslims who migrated to Pakistan after the 1947 partition of India.
The themes in Sindhi music often center around Sufism and mysticism.
The three branches of the modern Indo-Iranian languages are Indo-Aryan, Iranian, and Nuristani.
The total population of the region that composes contemporary Pakistan was approximately 17,708,014 according to the 1901 census.
The total population of the region that composes contemporary Pakistan was approximately 20,428,473 according to the 1911 census.
The total population of the region that composes contemporary Pakistan was approximately 22,214,152 according to the 1921 census.
The total population of the region that composes contemporary Pakistan was approximately 24,774,056 according to the 1931 census.
The total population of the region that composes contemporary Pakistan was approximately 29,643,600 according to the final census prior to partition in 1941.
The tradition of visiting dargahs is still practiced today.
The traditional dress for both men and women is the shalwar kameez; trousers, jeans, and shirts are also popular among men.
The traditional male Pashtun dress includes the Khet partug, Peshawari shalwar, and the Patke tunban.
The two major Sunni sects in Pakistan are the Barelvi movement and Deobandi movement.
The typical dress of a Baloch woman consists of a long frock and shalwar with a headscarf.
The underside of some canopies feature lotus flowers, a symbol commonly associated with Hinduism.
The universities do not provide skills that are in demand in the market.
The use of funerary pavilions eventually expanded beyond lower Sindh, and influenced funerary architecture in neighbouring Gujarat.
The vocational curriculum starts at year 5 and ends with year 10.
The widespread educational infrastructure has enabled the Deobandi movement to play a pivotal role in shaping religious education and discourse across the country.
The wooden panels on the ceiling are decorated with stained glass work, while the walls are richly decorated with floral designs.
The word "Desi" comes from the Sanskrit word "Desh" meaning "country".
The word is a loan of Indian Persian vilāyatī (ولایاتی), from vilāyat (ولایت) meaning 'Iran' and later 'Europe' or 'Britain', ultimately from Arabic wilāyah ولاية‎ meaning 'state, province'.
The year saw some of the most critically acclaimed Pakistani films, including Moor and Manto.
Their debut album Disco Deewane, released in 1981, broke sales records in Pakistan and became the best-selling Asian pop album at the time.
Their religion has been compared to that of ancient Greece, but they are much closer to the Hindu traditions in other parts of the Indian subcontinent.
Their song "Dil Dil Pakistan" was voted as the third most popular song of all time by a BBC World poll in 2003.
Then, the person would receive an associate degree in education.
There are a few disused synagogues in both cities; while one Karachi synagogue was torn down for the construction of a shopping mall.
There are a lot of TV Channels, Magazines, Portals, and websites which are working only for the fashion industry.
There are a number of legislative and regulatory mechanisms that directly and indirectly affect the media.
There are also some traditional games of Pakistan, such as kabaddi, which are popular.
There are approximately 60 local languages with fewer than a million speakers.
There are at least 4,000 Pakistani citizens practicing the Zoroastrian religion.
There are hundreds of Pakistani newspapers from the large national Urdu newspapers to the small local vernacular papers.
There are more than twenty-one polo clubs in Pakistan and over forty polo championships held all over the country every year.
There are now dedicated radio stations catering to British-South Asians such as the BBC Asian Network.
There are parts of Pakistan where government leaders have not enacted strategies to help children attend schools.
There are people who do not profess any faith (such as atheists and agnostics) in Pakistan, but their numbers are not known.
There are plenty of vegetables which are grown seasonally in Pakistan, which are cooked into curries which are eaten for lunch or dinner.
There are plenty of vegetarian-friendly vegetable and legume dishes popular in Pakistan.
There are three dominating media moguls, or large media groups, which to some extent also have political affiliations.
There are three major clubs in Pakistan, which include Islamabad Rugby Football Club (IRFC) also known as the "JINNS", Lahore Rugby Football Club (LRFC), and Karachi Rugby Football Club (KRFC).
There are two levels of Sufism in Pakistan.
There are two types of bachelor's degree courses in Pakistan: Pass or Honours.
There has been success at the international level; Muhammad Yousaf was the 1994 IBSF World Snooker Champion and the 2006 IBSF World Masters Champion.
There have been conversions to Islam from the religious minorities of Pakistan.
There have been terrorist attacks directed at Sufi shrines and festivals, 5 in 2010 that killed 64 people.
There have been terrorist attacks directed at Sufi shrines and festivals, five in 2010 that killed 64 people.
There is a Punjabi variant of kafi singing.
There is a clear divide between Urdu and English media.
There is a shortage of teachers in Pakistan.
There is a small Jewish community of Pakistani origin settled in Ramla, Israel.
There is also a Roman Catholic community in Karachi which was established by Goan and Tamil migrants when Karachi's infrastructure was being developed between the two World Wars.
There is also a great deal of variety between age cohorts.
There is more focus and interest on memorizations to qualify and pass exams.
There is raga in Indian classical music known as "Desi".
Though Pakistani media enjoy relative freedom compared to some of its South Asian neighbours, the industry was subjected to many undemocratic and regressive laws and regulations.
Three Free-to-air TV Channels are available on terrestrial beam, these are PTV Home, PTV News and ATV.
Three to four subjects are selected as per the student's interests.
Through DTMB five TV channels of PTV Network, ATV and two Chinese TV Channels are available via terrestrial beam.
Through predictive analytics, educators gain insights into student performance, enabling informed decision-making.
Throughout Pakistan's educational system, there is a gender disparity between males and females.
Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, the film industry went through several periods of ups and downs, a reflection of its dependency on state funding and incentives.
Thus, Mahoor Shahzad became the first Pakistani badminton player to compete at the Olympic Games.
Thus, out of total 37 years since 1972, public expenditure on education as a percentage of GDP either decreased or remained stagnant for 21 years.
Thus, svadeśa (Sanskrit: स्वदेश) refers to one's own country or homeland, while paradeśa (Sanskrit: परदेश) refers to another's country or a foreign land.
Time needs to be invested in updating curriculum and teacher education facilities.
To a large extent the media enjoys freedom of expression in spite of political pressure and direct bans sometimes administered by political stake holders.
To a large extent the media enjoys freedom of expression.
To celebrate the success of these endeavours, film journalist Ilyas Rashidi launched an annual awarding event on 17 July 1957.
Today the eastern Dari dialect of Persian is spoken by refugees from Afghanistan and a small number of local Balochistani Hazara community.
Today, Pakistani fashion is a combination of traditional and modern dress and has become a mark of Pakistani culture.
Today, Pakistani literature has taken a shape of its own by depicting the complex class system and the common man.
Today, there are over a hundred public and private radio stations due to more liberal media regulations.
Towards the late 1960s and early 1970s, political turmoil once again returned with the East Pakistan conflict brewing.
Traditionally the bulk of TV shows have been plays or soap operas, some of them critically acclaimed.
Traditionally, Punjabi identity is primarily linguistic, geographical and cultural.
Traditionally, meals are served on a dastarkhān—a special rug lined with a plastic sheet to prevent spills and surrounded by cushions or pillows for added comfort.
Traditionally, the government-owned Pakistan Television Corporation (PTV) has been the dominant media player in Pakistan.
Transmissions of AJK TV are available on terrestrial network in the northern areas of Azad Jammu and Kashmir only.
Turban of a thin cloth is also worn especially in rural areas of Punjab where it is called pagri.
Two Sufis whose shrines receive much national attention are Ali Hajweri in Lahore (ca.
Ultimately, he had to call for elections.
Under the Delhi Sultan, the Persian-centralasiatic style ascended over Arab influences.
Unresolved issues continue to pose challenges for both countries.
Until the government of General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, "Islamic activists" were frustrated by the lack of "teeth" to enforce Islamic law in Pakistan's constitution.
Up until recently, swimming struggled as a sport in Pakistan.
Up until then, it was only done by the Pakistan Army.
Upon completion of each of the two years, they again take standardised tests in their subjects (HSSC-I and HSSC-II).
Upon completion of year 9, students are expected to take a standardised test in each of the first parts of their academic subjects (SSC-I).
Upon independence, there was a shortage of funds and filming equipment, which initially paralysed the film industry.
Upon successful completion of these examinations, students are awarded the Higher Secondary School Certificate (or HSSC).
Upon successful completion of these examinations, they are awarded a Secondary School Certificate (or SSC).
Urdu (اردو) is the national language (قومی زبان) and lingua franca of Pakistan.
Urdu Dictionary Board was established in 1958.
Urdu Science Board (USB) was established in 1962 as the “Central Board for the Development of Urdu” through a resolution.
Urdu Science Board has developed Urdu Science Encyclopedia consisting ten volumes.
Urdu dramas dominate the television entertainment industry, which has launched critically acclaimed miniseries and featured popular actors and actresses since the 1990s.
Urdu, Pakistan's national language and lingua franca, draws heavy influences from the Persian language (see Persian and Urdu).
Using draconian laws the government has also banned or officially silenced popular television channels.
Using oppressive laws the government has also banned or officially silenced popular television channels.
Using these laws, Ayub Khan nationalised large parts of the press and took over one of the two largest news agencies.
Usually, bare transliterations of Urdu into Roman letters, Roman Urdu, omit many phonemic elements that have no equivalent in English or other languages commonly written in the Latin script.
Usually, the style and designs of wedding attire vary across different regions from north to the south among different ethnic communities.
Various American, European, Asian TV channels, and movies are available to a majority of the population via Cable TV.
Various Pakistani universities offer two-year M.Phil.
Various clubs across the country also organize an event as well.
Various estimates suggest that there were about 1,500 Jews living in Pakistan at the time of its independence on 14 August 1947, with the majority living in Karachi and a few living in Peshawar.
Various kinds of pulses or legumes make up an important part of Pakistani cuisine.
Very little (only about 12%) of the total national allocation to education goes to higher education with about 88% being spent on lower-level education.
Vital Signs is widely regarded as Pakistan's first and most successful pop rock band.
Volleyball enjoys huge popularity in small towns and villages across Pakistan, particularly in the northern province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Waar (Wār; IPA: [ʋɑːr], meaning "The Strike") was the winner of 2013.
Waee music is also referred to as kafi and is also found in the neighbouring Punjab.
Waheed Murad was picturised in a song for the first time ever in director Saqlain Rizvi's Mamta, released in 1963.
Wasim Akram at the time of his retirement had taken the most wickets in ODIs.
Web news channels also appeared from mostly after 2010.
What prompted this shift was the military's experience during the two past confrontations with India.
When Jinnah died, Islamic scholar Maulana Shabbir Ahmad Usmani described Jinnah as the greatest Muslim after the Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb and also compared Jinnah's death to the Muhammad's passing.
When women wear the shalwar-kameez in some regions, they usually wear a long scarf or shawl called a dupatta around the head or neck.
Whereas the Ahmadis have literacy rate slightly higher than the national average.
While Bollywood films were banned from public cinemas from 1965 until 2008, they have remained an important part of popular culture.
While government tried to interfere, one important cross road came with Television and their after digital media.
While lentils (called daal) and chickpeas (called channa/chanay ki daal) are popular ingredients in homestyle cooking, they are traditionally considered to be inexpensive food sources.
While madrasas represent a small portion of the overall education system, their influence is significant, especially in regions where the state education system is failing.
While many elements overlap, every province and ethnicity have nuanced approaches to the garments.
While many of its functions have been devolved to provincial governments in Pakistan, several institutes continue to operate under its federal oversight.
While some individuals find the term "South Asian" inclusive and encompassing, others feel it does not fully capture their specific backgrounds.
While the regulatory framework ensures accountability and responsible broadcasting, it has also sparked discussions about the delicate balance between regulation and freedom of the press.
While traditionally rooted in poetry, the ghazal in Pakistan has evolved to become closely associated with music.
With 38 letters, the Urdu alphabet is typically written in the calligraphic Nasta'liq script.
With clothes Sindhi men wore Sindhi Patko, Pagg or Phento (turbans), youngsters wore Sindhi cap, men carried Ajrak or any other locally made shawls/handkerchief were carried on shoulders.
With privatization of television stations in full swing, a new channel Filmazia began airing old Pakistani films as well as newer low budget productions.
With the collapse of the Indus Valley civilization the architecture also suffered considerable damage.
With the flight of Zoroastrians from Greater Iran into the Indian subcontinent, the Parsi communities were established.
With the greatest concentration of the highest peaks of the world many of them very challenging climbs, Pakistan is a prime location for skilled mountain climbers.
With the inadequate education and skills, poor health conditions and lack of access to resources actually decrease the quality of female's life.
With the little improvement done by the government, people have started to believe that parents prefer to educate boys rather than girls.
Women's cricket is also very popular, with Kiran Baluch holding the current record for the highest score in a women's test match with her innings of 242.
Women's cycling also takes place in the country.
Wood and loam served as construction materials.
Works by Noam Chomsky have influenced philosophical ideas in various fields of social and political philosophy.
Wrestling has always been an important sport in Pakistan, with regular tournaments played locally.
You must secure admission in such an institution, upon the completion of high school, i.e.
Zakat charitable donations became a 2.5% annual tax.
Zia Ul Haq had strongly denounced "western ideas" such as jeans and rock music.
Zia bolstered the influence of the ulama (Islamic clergy) and the Islamic parties, whilst conservative scholars became fixtures on television.
Zia established separate Shariat judicial courts and court benches to judge legal cases using Islamic doctrine.
Zia's regime sought to implement a conservative Islamic agenda, which came with strict bans and restrictions on musical expression across the country.
Zia's state sponsored Islamization increased sectarian divisions in Pakistan between Sunnis and Shias and between Deobandis and Barelvis.
Zia-ul-Haq committed himself to establishing an Islamic state and enforcing sharia law.
Zia-ul-Haq forged a strong alliance between the military and Deobandi institutions.
Zinda Bhaag went on to be Pakistan's official submission to the Oscars, the first after a gap of fifty years but did not make the final shortlist nominees.
[Dupatta] is also used by some women when entering a mosque, dargah, where they cover their head with a dupatta while entering such places.
and BE in their related discipline after DAE.
and was about the intertwined stories of numerous characters who are all struggling with their problems, and who somehow connect on a unifying level.
or MS degree programs in Arts, Science, and Technology for graduates who have completed 16-year schooling (BS or master's degrees) in their relevant field.
the 3rd fastest century in ODIs, and the highest number of sixes in international cricket.
the British system equivalent being O-levels.
to create a solid bloc of all Muslim states from Karachi to Ankara, from Pakistan to Morocco.
while some Sindhi women wore long thobe like dresses called Jubo in Sindhi, and other Sindhi women wore frocks called (Ghagho, Abho or Fairak) in Sindhi.
میں پاکستان کا شہری پاکستان کا مالک ھوں, the film extols the principle of Government of the people, by the people and for the people.
“Malik Riaz's case proved that the media can hold the judiciary and even itself accountable", says Javed Chaudhry, columnist and anchorperson working with Express News.
