"But we all have very nasty fears that the flows of the Indus could be severely, severely affected by glacier melt as a consequence of climate change," and reduced by perhaps as much as 50 per cent.
"But we need to be concerned about that.
"North-West Frontier Province" is semantically non-descript and socially wrongful.
"The secretaries were more powerful than the concerned advisors," in the words of one commentator.
"There is insufficient data to say what will happen to the Indus," says David Grey, the World Bank's senior water advisor in South Asia.
'Gateway of Islam'), as it was one of the first regions of the Indian subcontinent to fall under Islamic rule.
'The River Sindh'), contrasting to the Province of Sindh (Urdu: صوبہِ سندھ, romanized: Sūba-i-sindh).
2010 July floods swept 20% of Pakistan's land, the flood is the result of unprecedented Monsoon rains which lasted from 28 July to 31 July 2010.
2020 community estimates indicated the Sikh population in Sindh stood at approximately 10,000, while the 2023 census indicated a population of 5,182 Sikhs.
45% of infant deaths are due to diarrhea and 60% to overall waterborne diseases.
93% of the water of the Indus Basin is used for irrigation of agricultural land.
: 82 This has brought into question whether an actual vote took place.
A common threshold is to define a mountain as a summit with 300 m prominence (1,000 ft; also 10 traditional rope lengths).
A comprehensive evaluation of the corridor's potential remains challenging until Pakistan addresses its political and security challenges.
A deputy commissioner (popularly abbreviated to "DC") is the executive head of the district.
A detailed account of his reign is available in the Tarikh-i-Mubarak Shahi written by Yahya-bin-Ahmad Sirhindi.
A district council (or zila council) is a local government body at the district level.
A drawback of a prominence-based list is that it may exclude peaks commonly thought of as mountains that are connected via a high ridge to a taller summit.
A few dozen families also live in Kotli, Poonch, and Bagh.
A form of band music composed of clarinets (Surnai) and drums is popular in Chitral.
A full list showing different characteristics of each district, such as their population, area, and a map showing their location can be found at the main article.
A gradual drying of the region during the 3rd millennium BC may have been the initial stimulus for its urbanisation.
A high of 53.7 °C (128.66 °F) was recorded in Turbat, Balochistan on 28 May 2017.
A land-use plan for the city of Muzaffarabad was prepared by the Japan International Cooperation Agency.
A large number of Baloch settlers arrived and the towns of Dera Ghazi Khan and Dera Ismail Khan were founded.
A large number of Sindhi Hindus travelled to India by sea, to the ports of Bombay, Porbandar, Veraval and Okha.
A large part of the drainage basin is mountainous, and around 40% of its area lies above an elevation of 2,000 m (6,600 ft).
A major earthquake centered in the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa's Kohistan District in 1965 also caused heavy damage.
A major earthquake in 2005 killed at least 100,000 people and left another three million people displaced, causing widespread devastation to the region's infrastructure and economy.
A majority of the runoff in the Indus drainage basin comes from meltwater—glacial melt contributing 41% and snowmelt providing 22%—of the Himalaya, Hindu Kush and Karakorum mountains.
A metalled road runs alongside the railway that connects Quetta to Karachi via the nearby town of Sibi to Jacobabad and Rohri in the plain of the River Indus.
A narrow strip of Afghanistan territory called the Wakhan Corridor extends between Pakistan and Tajikistan.
A new form of transport in Pakistan is the Qing-Qi (pronounced "ching-chee"), which is a cross between a motorcycle and auto-rickshaw.
A position of 'Deputy Chief Executive' was created to act as the local administrator, but the real powers still rested with the 'Chief Executive', who was the Federal Minister of KANA.
A power station is located adjacent to the refinery.
A primary reason for this state of affairs was the remoteness of Gilgit-Baltistan.
A provisional government (Aburi Hakoomat) was established by the Gilgit locals with Raja Shah Rais Khan as the president and Mirza Hassan Khan as the commander-in-chief.
A railway through the region has been proposed; see Khunjerab Railway for details.
A recent global remote sensing analysis suggested that there were 1,575 km2 of tidal flats in Pakistan, making it the 20th ranked country in terms of how much tidal flat occurs there.
A severe quake in 1931 was followed by one of more destructive force in 1935.
A significant number of people from Gilgit-Baltistan are residing in other parts of Pakistan, mainly in Punjab and Karachi.
A study showed that on one of Karachi's main roads, the average noise level was around 90 dB and was capable of reaching about 110 dB.
A theory of the origin of the Baloch people, the largest ethnic group in the region, is that they are of Median descent.
A tornado is also reported to have hit Chak Misran village close to Sargodha in Pakistan on 28 March, 2001 (Khan, 2010; Faisal and Jameel, 2010).
A web portal was launched where citizens can get registered and report their activities to earn points.
Abbottabad became the nerve center of the movement.
About 26% of Pakistan's total land area is under cultivation and is watered by one of the largest irrigation systems in the world.
About 39% of the revenue is generated from the transportation of petroleum, 19% from imported wheat, fertiliser and rock phosphate.
About 40% of the total population of Rajasthan lives in the Thar Desert.
About 85% of the Thar Desert is in India, and about 15% is in Pakistan.
About 85% of the population lived in rural areas.
About only 4.1% of land in Pakistan is covered with forests.
According to 2010 news reports, the people of Gilgit-Baltistan want to merge into Pakistan as a separate fifth province.
According to Christopher Snedden, one of the reasons for this was that the people of Azad Kashmir had always wanted to be part of Pakistan.
According to Ershad Mahmud, these Pakistani political parties have played a 'laudable role' in organising a movement for democratic rights among the residents of Gilgit-Baltistan.
According to Indian journalist Paul Sahni, this is seen as an effort by Pakistan to legitimise its rule over Gilgit-Baltistan.
According to Reuters and the BBC, there are as many as 500,000-600,000 Hazaras living in Quetta and its surrounding areas.
According to Richard M. Eaton, Khizr Khan was the son of a Punjabi chieftain.
According to a World Bank report, "Karachi's urban air pollution is among the most severe in the world and it engenders significant damages to human health and the economy".
According to a report on Dawn, the rate of multidimensional poverty in Balochistan had risen to 71% by 2016.
According to data maintained by Christian community organisations, there are around 4,500 Christian residents in the region.
According to local traditions, Baba Ratan Hindi was a trader from Punjab who was one of the non-Arab companions of Prophet Muhammad.
According to researchers, Pakistan is projected to become the most water-stressed country in the region by the year 2040.
According to scholar Chitralekha Zutshi, the organisation's declared goal was to achieve responsible government under the aegis of the maharaja without association with either India or Pakistan.
According to scholar Yaqub Khan Bangash, it lacked sway over the population.
According to the 2017 Census, nearly all of the population of Balochistan were Muslims.
According to the 2020–2021 census, the literacy rate in Azad Kashmir was 91.34%.
According to the 2023 Census of Pakistan, the population of the city was a total of 1,565,546.
According to the 2023 census, the most widely spoken language is Pashto, native to 81% of the population and spoken throughout the province.
According to the Economic Survey of Pakistan, the drought was one of the most significant factors responsible for the less than anticipated growth performance.
According to the Minister for Railways Ghulam Ahmad Bilour, after the trial of the container train service, a passenger train will be launched.
According to the World Bank, 70% of Pakistan's population live in rural areas and are already stricken by high poverty levels.
According to the World Wildlife Fund it is one of the most threatened cetaceans with only about 1,816 still existing.
According to the government, 40 percent of the country's water needs went unmet.
Accounts of the Indus Valley from the times of Alexander's campaign indicate a healthy forest cover in the region.
Achaemenid emperor Darius the Great, in 518 BCE crossed the Indus and annex the regions up to the Jhelum River.
Additionally, several thousand Punjabis gather in Lahore every year on International Mother Language Day.
Afghanistan's governments have periodically refused to recognize Pakistan's inheritance of British treaties regarding the region.
Afghanistan's loya jirga of 1949 declared the Durand Line invalid.
Afridi tribes resisted Aurangzeb rule during the Afridi Revolt of the 1670s.
After Ashoka's death the Mauryan empire fell to pieces, just as in the west the Seleucid power was waning.
After Pakistan's independence, Jammu and Kashmir initially remained an independent state.
After Ranjit Singh's departure from the region, Khattak's rule was undermined and power seized by Yar Muhammad Khan.
After his death, his son Muhammad Tughlaq became the emperor.
After his invasion, Khizr Khan established the fourth dynasty of the Delhi Sultanate.
After independence and dissolution of Empire, Independent and free Pakistan contested the southern boundary of Sindh, and a succession of border incidents resulted.
After taking control of Gilgit, the Gilgit Scouts along with Azad irregulars moved towards Baltistan and Ladakh and captured Skardu by May 1948.
After the 2008 general election, the Awami National Party formed a coalition provincial government with the Pakistan Peoples Party.
After the 2013 earthquake in Pakistan, the mud island was formed.
After the 2018 election, PTI increased their seat share and formed a majority government.
After the Afghan-Soviet War, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has become one of the areas of top focus for the War against Terror.
After the Battle of Peshawar, he died because of regretting as his subjects brought disaster and disgrace to the Shahi dynasty.
After the Indus Water Treaty in 1960 World Bank decided that River Sutlej, Ravi and Beas water will be used by India and River Indus, Jhelum and Chenab water will be used by Pakistan.
After the Indus debouches from its narrow Himalayan valley, it forms, along with its tributaries, the Punjab region of South Asia.
After the Umayyads conquered the key cities of Uch and Multan, they ruled the far areas of Punjab and included Kashmir.
After the accession of Khizr Khan, the Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Sindh were reunited under the Delhi Sultanate, where he spent his time subduing rebellions.
After the battle of Peshawar, Mahmud of Ghazni had secured controlled over southern regions of Pakhtunkhwa.
After the creation of Pakistan, Pakistan continued with this name but a Pashtun political party, Awami National Party based in the province demanded that the province name be changed to "Pakhtunkhwa".
After the death of Mubarak Shah, his nephew, Muhammad Shah ascended the throne and styled himself as Sultan Muhammad Shah.
After the death of the Islamic prophet Muhammad, the Arab expansion towards the east reached the Sindh region beyond Persia.
After the defeat of the Sikhs in the First Anglo-Sikh War, the region became a part of the Jammu and Kashmir princely state, which since 1846 had remained under the rule of the Dogras.
After the empire's fall in 712, though the empire had ended, its dynasty's members administered parts of Sindh under the Umayyad Caliphate's Caliphal province of Sind.
After the foundation of Pakistan, Balochistan acquired the status of a province and Quetta became a provincial capital.
After the girl's family filed a case, the court ruled in the family's favour, angering the local Muslims who had later gone on to lead attacks against the Bannu Brigade.
After the mothers lay and leave them buried under the sands the SWD and WWF officials take the eggs and protect them until they are hatched to keep them from predators.
After this the Indus flows alone through the Lower Indus Plain.
Agricultural nonpoint sources enter surface water through direct surface runoff or through seepage to ground water that discharges to a surface water outlet.
Agricultural production is mainly from kharif crops, which are grown in the summer season and seeded in June and July.
Agricultural products are wheat, corn (maize), barley, and fruits.
Agriculture has been the major economic feature of the Punjab and has therefore formed the foundation of Punjabi culture, with one's social status being determined by landownership.
Agriculture is a major part of Azad Kashmir's economy.
Agriculture is sustained largely due to irrigation works.
Ahmad Shah Durrani, founder of the Afghan Empire, also won the allegiance of that area's rulers, and many Baloch fought under him during the Third Battle of Panipat.
Ahmad Shah invaded the remnants of the Mughal Empire a third time, and then a fourth, consolidating control over the Kashmir and Punjab regions.
Ahmad Shah was then forced to accompany Zorawar Singh on his raid into Western Tibet.
Air pollution is a growing environmental problem in most major cities of Pakistan.
Airlift is a Pakistan-based company while SWVL is an Egyptian company.
Airports and seaports have been built with the addition of foreign and domestic funding.
Al-Baladhuri states they were victorious at Debal but doesn't mention the results of other two raids.
Al-Hakim ibn Jabalah al-Abdi, who attacked Makran in the year 649, was an early partisan of Ali ibn Abu Talib.
Alam replied [to the locals], "you are a crowd of fools led astray by a madman.
Alexander conquered parts of Sindh after Punjab for few years and appointed his general Peithon as governor.
Alexander then dispatched part of his force through the valley of the Kabul River, while he himself advanced into Bajaur and Swat with his light troops.
Alexander was wounded by an arrow that had penetrated his lung, leaving him severely injured.
Alexander's admiral Nearchus set out from the Indus Delta to explore the Persian Gulf, until reaching the Tigris.
All Ministers report to the Chief Minister, who is the Chief Executive.
All Secretaries report to the Chief Secretary of Punjab, who is usually a BPS-22 Civil Servant.
All are tributaries of the Indus River, the Sutlej being the largest.
All flights are subject to weather clearance; in winter, flights are often delayed by several days.
All law-making was concentrated in the KANA Ministry of Pakistan.
All of Pakistan's provinces and territories are subdivided into divisions, which are further subdivided into districts, and then tehsils, which are again further subdivided into union councils.
All of the roads to the south opened toward the Pakistan-administered state of Azad Kashmir and to the southeast toward the present-day Indian-administered Jammu and Kashmir.
All other peaks above 8,000m are in the Baltoro Muztagh subrange of Karakoram.
All political and judicial powers remained in the hands of the Ministry of Kashmir Affairs and Northern Areas (KANA).
All the figures require to be re-checked.
Allegedly, the firing was ordered by the coalition government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, led by the Awami National Party.
Almost every bigger valley has a polo ground, polo matches in such grounds attract locals as well as foreigners visitors during summer season.
Along the coastal strip, the climate is modified by sea breeze.
Already, the massive droughts of 1998-2002 has stretched the coping abilities of the existing systems to the limit and it has barely been able to check the situation from becoming a catastrophe.
Also, many of the elevations listed are approximate, due to imprecise and inconsistent surveys.
Alternatively, a relative prominence (prominence or height) is used (usually 7–8%) to reflect that in higher mountain ranges everything is on a larger scale.
Alternatively, some authors consider that Hindush may have been located in the Punjab area.
Although Sindh has a semi arid climate, through its coastal and riverine forests, its huge fresh water lakes and mountains and deserts, Sindh supports a large amount of varied wildlife.
Although during the Stone and Bronze Age and Alexander the Great's empire an indigenous population existed, the Baloch people themselves did not enter the region until the 14th century CE.
Although it constitutes approximately 44% of Pakistan's land area, only 5% of it is arable, and it is noted for an extremely dry desert climate.
Although official estimates rarely place the temperature above 46 °C, newspaper sources claim that it reaches 51 °C and regularly carry reports about people who have succumbed to the heat.
Although some NGOs and government departments have taken initiatives to stop environmental degradation, Pakistan's environmental issues still remain.
Although some of the names were ethnically neutral, most proposals emphasised the province's Pashtun ethnic identity.
Although the summer temperatures do not get as high as those in Punjab, the high humidity causes the residents a great deal of discomfort.
Although, Pakistan Hindu Council claimed that there are 6,842,526 Hindus living in Sindh Province covering around 14.29% of the region's population.
Among the highest mountains are K2 (Mount Godwin-Austen) and Nanga Parbat, the latter being one of the most feared mountains in the world.
Among the three tiers of local government, tehsil government is the second tier.
Among the wild animals, the Sindh ibex (sareh), blackbuck, wild sheep (Urial or gadh) and wild bear are found in the western rocky range.
Among these, the Ravi and Sutlej are diverted in upstream India, for which consumptive use was awarded to India under the Indus Waters Treaty signed in 1960 by India and Pakistan.
An 1835 attempt by Dost Muhammad Khan to re-occupy Peshawar failed when his army declined to engage in combat with the Dal Khalsa.
An initiative named Clean Green Pakistan was launched in 2019 by the Government of Pakistan.
Anchan's reign brought prosperity and entertained art, sport, and variety in architecture.
Annual rainfall ranges from around 500 millimetres (20 in) in the most sheltered areas to as much as 1,750 millimetres (69 in) in parts of Abbottabad and Mansehra Districts.
Another factor was that the whole of Pakistan itself was deficient in democratic norms and principles, therefore the federal government did not prioritise democratic development in the region.
Another major language of Azad Kashmir is Gujari.
Another new barrage called "Sindh Barrage" is planned as a terminal barrage on the Indus River.
Another very common form of transport, seen mainly at hotels and airports, are yellow taxis.
Any further utilization of the river basin water is not economically feasible.
Apart from Twelver Shias there are Isma'ilis in the Chitral district.
Approximately 16.5% of the population was urban in 2017.
Around 1 million of the population selected "Other" category, largely referring to Khowar in the mountainous northwest Chitral.
Around 1.5 million Afghan refugees also remain in the province, the majority of whom are Pashtuns.
Around 20% of population is based in the cities of Gilgit and Skardu.
Around two-thirds of water supplied for irrigation and in homes come from the Indus and its associated rivers.
As FATA became part of KPK, all the literacy rates are recalculated by combining literacy rates of both regions.
As Mughal power weakened, Afghan rulers of Durrani dynasty took control of the region.
As a result, Environment Protection Ordinance was enacted in 1983, which was mainly regulated by the Environment and Urban Affairs Division.
As a result, damming and irrigation have made fish farming an important economic activity.
As a result, earthquakes in Pakistan occur often and are destructive.
As a result, the 2010 Pakistan floods were considered "good news" for the ecosystem and population of the river delta as they brought much-needed fresh water.
As a result, the government banned fishing from Guddu Barrage to Sukkur.
As a result, the region has historically seen substantial flooding in the summer months.
As a result, the southern slopes of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa are the wettest part of Pakistan.
As in central Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, the seasonality of precipitation shows a very sharp gradient from west to east, but the whole region very rarely receives significant monsoon rainfall.
As in the previous census in 1998, the largest city of Gilgit-Baltistan was Gilgit, with 56,701 inhabitants.
As of 2011[update], Indus water flows in to the Rann of Kutch during its floods breaching flood banks.
As of 2015, there are only 327,778 registered Afghan refugees according to the UNHCR.
As of 2021, GDP of Azad Jammu and Kashmir was estimated to be 10 billion pounds, giving per capita an income of £5604.
As of 2021, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) has the highest literacy growth rate in the whole country (Pakistan).
As of 2023[update], Pakistan has 37 national parks (Urdu: پاکستان کے نیشنل پارک) that are recognised by World Database on Protected Areas.
As of August 2021[update], the gross state product (GSP) nominal of Gilgit-Baltistan was $2.5 billion and GSP (nominal) per capita of Gilgit-Baltistan was $1,748.
As of June 2021, there are eight divisions.
As of September 2010[update], over two thousand people had died and over a million homes had been destroyed since the flooding began.
As of the 2017 census, the literacy rate for Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (including FATA) is 51.66%.
As of the 2023 Pakistani census, there are two megacities, ten million-plus cities, in Pakistan.
As per a 2025 Dawn News report, based on data compiled by research organisation Population Council, UK Aid and the United Nations Population, Balochistan had an annual growth rate of 3.20%.
As per a 2025 Dawn News report, based on data compiled by research organisation Population Council, UK Aid and the United Nations Population, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa had an annual growth rate of 2.38%.
As per a 2025 Dawn News report, based on data compiled by research organisation Population Council, UK Aid and the United Nations Population, Sindh had an annual growth rate of 2.57%.
As the altitude further declines the Indus basin becomes overall quite slow-flowing as it passes through the Punjab Plain.
As with the changing climate in South Asia as a whole, the climate of Pakistan has changed over the past several decades, with significant impacts on the environment and people.
At Dir, March remains the wettest month due to frequent frontal cloud bands, whereas in Hazara more than half the rainfall comes from the monsoon.
At Mithankot these rivers finally meet with the River Indus.
At a press conference on 8 June 2015 in Quetta, Balochistan's Home Minister Sarfraz Bugti accused India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi of openly supporting terrorism.
At an altitude of 1,605 metres (5,266 feet) above sea level, Quetta International Airport is the second-highest airport in Pakistan.
At certain times, the Kushan Empire also held political sway in parts of Balochistan.
At its inception, Pakistan consisted of two wings, which were separated from each other by around 1,600 kilometres (990 mi) of Indian territory.
At its zenith, the kingdom stretched over the Kabul Valley, Gandhara and western Punjab under Jayapala.
At least 1.7 million acres (690,000 ha; 2,700 sq mi) of arable land were inundated.
At least 1.7 million acres of arable land has been inundated as a result of the flooding.
At least 159 people were killed, including many children.
At the local level, the city is governed by a municipal corporation consisting of 66 ward members which elects a mayor and a deputy mayor.
At the north-west corner are the Pamir Mountains.
At the time of partition in 1947, the province was split into East and West Punjab.
At the time of the Partition of India in 1947, the British abandoned their suzerainty over the princely states, which were left with the options of joining India or Pakistan or remaining independent.
At the time, Little Palola (Chinese: 小勃律) was used to refer to Gilgit, while Great Palola (Chinese: 大勃律) was used to refer to Baltistan.
Auto rickshaws are a popular method of travelling in cities and are found in almost every city and town in Pakistan.
Autumn is pleasant but gets cooler day by day with almost no rainfall.
Autumn starts in mid-September and continues until mid-November with average temperatures in the 12–18 °C (54–64 °F) range.
Average annual rainfall ranges from 100 to 500 mm, and occurs during the short July-to-September southwest monsoon.
Average temperature varies with season, and extremes can range from near-freezing in the winter to more than 50 °C in the summer months.
Azad Jammu and Kashmir (Urdu: آزاد جموں و کشمیر, romanised: Āzād Jammū̃ o Kaśmīrⓘ, lit.
Azad Jammu and Kashmir has an almost entirely Muslim population.
Azad Kashmir (Free Kashmir) was the title of a pamphlet issued by the Muslim Conference party at its 13th general session held in 1945 at Poonch.
Azad Kashmir Day is celebrated in Azad Jammu and Kashmir on 24 October, which is the day that the Azad Jammu and Kashmir government was created in 1947.
Azad Kashmir borders with the Pakistani–administered Gilgit–Baltistan to the north; it shares borders with the Pakistani provinces of Punjab and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa to the south and west, respectively.
Azad Kashmir has its own T20 tournament called the Kashmir Premier League, which started in 2021.
Azad Kashmir is home to a vibrant civil society.
Azad Kashmir's budget and tax affairs, are dealt with by the Azad Jammu and Kashmir Council rather than by Pakistan's Central Board of Revenue.
Azad Kashmir's economy largely depends on agriculture, services, tourism, and remittances sent by members of the British Mirpuri community.
B. Bosworth warns against an uncritical reading of Greek sources who were obviously exaggerative.
Bahawalpur is the largest district of Punjab by area.
Baloch on the other hand are found throughout Balochistan, but most highly concentrated in the west and south of the province.
Balochi forms the majority in 21 districts and Pashto forms majority in 9 districts of Balochistan.
Balochistan (or Baluchistan) is located at the eastern edge of the Iranian plateau and in the border region between Southwest, Central, and South Asia.
Balochistan United WFC won the 2014 National Women Championship.
Balochistan is an extensive plateau of rough terrain divided into basins by ranges of sufficient height and ruggedness.
Balochistan is located in the southeastern part of the Iranian plateau.
Balochistan is rich in non-renewable and renewable resources; it is the second-largest supplier of natural gas in Pakistan.
Balochistan is situated in the southwest of Pakistan and covers an area of 347,190 square kilometres (134,050 mi2).
Balochistan lies at the mouth of the Strait of Hormuz and provides the shortest route from seaports to Central Asia.
Balochistan marked the westernmost extent of civilisation.
Balochistan's population density is low due to the mountainous terrain and scarcity of water.
Balochistan's share of Pakistan's national income has historically ranged between 3.7% to 4.9%.
Baltistan has more than 100 mountain peaks exceeding 6,100 metres (20,000 ft) height from sea level.
Because of their rugged topography and the rigors of the climate, the northern highlands and the Himalayas to the east have been formidable barriers to movement into Pakistan throughout history.
Because of this land was also the main source of revenue for the governments whose primary purpose for centuries was to accumulate revenue.
Before 1978, Gilgit-Baltistan was cut off from the rest of the Pakistan and the world due to the harsh terrain and the lack of accessible roads.
Before that it killed 213 people in Karachi on its way to Balochistan.
Before that, students from Naval College Karachi and Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute also made a successful hybrid car, but Devrim II is the most effective one.
Before the demise of Shribadat, a group of Shina people migrated from Gilgit Dardistan and settled in the Dras and Kharmang areas.
Beijing Underpass, Lahore is the longest underpass of Pakistan with a length of about 1.3 km (0.81 mi).
Besides a large variety of marine fish, the plumbeous dolphin, the beaked dolphin, rorqual or blue whale and skates frequent the seas along the Sindh coast.
Between 1999 and 2018, Pakistan ranked 5th in the countries affected by extreme weather caused by climate change.
Between 399 and 414, the Chinese Buddhist pilgrim Faxian visited Gilgit-Baltistan.
Between 627 and 645, the Chinese Buddhist pilgrim Xuanzang travelled through this region on his pilgrimage to India.
Between 644 and 655, Navasurendrāditya-nandin became king of the Palola Sāhi dynasty in Gilgit.
Between 723 and 728, the Korean Buddhist pilgrim Hyecho passed through this area.
Between July and November when the monsoon winds blow onshore from the ocean, giant olive ridley turtles lay their eggs along the seaward side.
Beyond the western terminus of the tribunal's award, the final stretch of Pakistan's border with India is about 80 kilometres long, running east and southeast of Sindh to an inlet of the Indian Ocean.
Bhati dominions continued to shift southwards: they ruled Multan, then finally got pushed into Cholistan and Jaisalmer, where Rawal Devaraja built Dera Rawal / Derawar.
Bhimber is home to most of them, followed by Mirpur and Muzaffarabad.
Bikaner and Jaisalmer are the largest cities located entirely in the desert.
Both Saraiki and Hindko have been enumerated separately from Punjabi in the Pakistani censuses of 1981 and 2017.
Both lengths are commonly found in modern publications; in some cases, both measurements can be found within the same work.
Brahui is spoken by 17.22% mainly in the central part of Balochistan.
British East India Company defeated the Sikhs during the Second Anglo-Sikh War in 1849, and incorporated small parts of the region into the Province of Punjab.
British troops constructed the infrastructure for their establishment as a garrison town.
Brown ensured that the treasury was secured and minorities were protected.
Brown outmaneuvered the pro-Independence group and secured the approval of the mirs and rajas for accession to Pakistan.
Built by Chinese workers and opened in 2007, Gwadar is undergoing a major expansion to turn it into a full-fledged, deep-water commercial port.
Bus service in urban areas and between cities is well established with services run by both public and private sectors.
But it was devoid of legislative powers.
By 1840 he conquered Skardu and captured its ruler, Ahmad Shah.
By 1947 Pashtun nationalists were advocating for a united India, and no prominent voices advocated for a union with Afghanistan.
By 1947 the majority of the ulama in the province began supporting the Muslim League's idea of Pakistan.
By 2016 the island had completely submerged.
By 721/722, Baltistan had come under the influence of the Tibetan Empire.
By 747, the Chinese army under the leadership of the ethnic-Korean commander Gao Xianzhi had recaptured Little Palola.
By at least 719/720, Ladakh (Mard) became part of the Tibetan Empire.
By mid-February the temperature begins to rise; springtime weather continues until mid-April, when the summer heat sets in.
By that time, Buddhism was practised in Baltistan, and Sanskrit was the written language.
By the 16th century, Muslims were the majority in the region and an elaborate network of mosques and mausoleums marked the landscape.
By the late 19th century, the official boundaries of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region still had not been defined as the region was still claimed by the Kingdom of Afghanistan.
By the time of Julius Caesar, several well-established combined land-sea trade routes depended upon water transport through the sea around the rough inland terrain features to its north.
By this time, according to Chinese records, the king of Little Palola was Mo-ching-mang (Chinese: 沒謹忙; pinyin: méijǐnmáng).
Caravanserais were built for travelers to spend the night.
Central Sindh's maximum temperature typically reaches 43–44 °C (109–111 °F).
Central Sindh's temperatures are generally lower than those of upper Sindh but higher than those of lower Sindh.
Centuries before the arrival of Islam in the seventh century, parts of Balochistan were ruled by the Paratarajas, an Indo-Scythian dynasty.
Chagai is the largest district of Pakistan by area while Lahore District is the largest by population with a total population of 11,126,285 at the 2017 census.
Chandragupta Maurya fought Alexander's successor in the east, Seleucus I Nicator, when the latter invaded.
Chandragupta's son Bindusara further expanded the empire.
Chattha State was annexed when Jan muhammad Chattha was killed in a siege led by Ranjit Singh when the latter recovered the lost Chattha state with Afghan aid.
China and Afghanistan contain the remaining 14%.
China and Pakistan have both undertaken constructive measures to facilitate the advancement of the CPEC project.
Chitral is the largest by area and Peshawar is the largest by population from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa with a population of 4,269,079 in the 2017 census.
Citizens would also be awarded medals when they reach a certain threshold of points.
City populations found in this list only refer to the population found within the city's defined limits and any adjacent cantonment, if exists (except for Gujranwala and Okara).
Climate change has adversely effected this region with more rains every year.
Climate change in Pakistan is a major issue for the country.
Climate change poses a significant menace to Pakistan's economy and security.
Collecting his forces in Multan, Khizr Khan defeated and killed Mallu Iqbal Khan in Delhi in 1405.
Collectively, Lahore and Multan subahs, and parts of Delhi subah, comprised Mughal Punjab.
Consequentially, a thousand members of the Muslim League were imprisoned.
Consequently, most of the reported health problems in Pakistan are either a direct or indirect result of polluted water.
Conversely, in the western regions of Punjab that ultimately became Pakistani Punjab, all districts became almost exclusively Muslim by 1951.
Craterus was ordered to fortify and repopulate Arigaion, probably in Bajaur, which its inhabitants had burnt and deserted.
Cricket is the main sport played in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Critically endangered, it thrives in open grasslands and semi-arid regions.
Crocodiles are rare and inhabit only the backwaters of the Indus, eastern Nara channel and Karachi backwater.
Crowded housing conditions are common in some areas.
Currently the Sindh government is planning to divide the Tharparkar district into Tharparkar and Chhachro districts.
Currently, Gilgit-Baltistan is neither a province nor a state.
Currently, flights are being operated by PIA to Gilgit on the brand-new ATR 42–500, which was purchased in 2006.
Cyclones form in the Arabian sea often results in strong winds and heavy rainfall in Pakistan's coastal areas.
Damming has also isolated the delta population of Indus River dolphins from those further upstream.
Dards are found mainly in the western areas.
Data entry error has occurred in Sindh Province.
Death of the Indus river dolphin has also been attributed to fishermen using poison to kill fish and scooping them up.
Deputy commissioners are appointed by the government from the Pakistan Administrative Service.
Dera Ismail Khan is one of the hottest places in South Asia while in the mountains to the north the weather is mild in the summer and intensely cold in the winter.
Derawar Fort in the Cholistan Desert is the site for the annual Cholistan Jeep Rally.
Desert safaris on camels have become increasingly popular around Jaisalmer.
Despite PIA's domination in domestic market there are also 4 other carriers in Pakistan.
Despite having lived in the province for over two decades, they are registered as citizens of Afghanistan.
Despite the apparently one-sided results, Alexander was impressed by Porus and chose to not depose him.
Despite this, agriculture and livestock make up about 47% of Balochistan's economy.
Different sources often differ by many meters, and many mountains in the Karakorum differ by over 100 metres on different maps.
Distance from the provincial capital, Bombay, led to grievances that Sindh was neglected in contrast to other parts of the Presidency.
Disturbances in the region increased as the war continued.
Domestic and international tourists frequent the desert seeking adventure on camels for one to several days.
Dost Muhammad Khan's son, Mohammad Akbar Khan engaged with Sikh forces the Battle of Jamrud of 1837, in which prominent sikh commander Hari Singh was killed.
Drivers charge according to a meter located on the dashboard of the car, but fares can be negotiated if there is no meter.
Dry hot days and cool nights are typical during the summer.
Due to British policies, much land in Sindh was transferred from Muslim to Hindu hands over the decades.
Due to its altitude and ruggedness, the Karakoram is much less inhabited than parts of the Himalayas further east.
Due to more awareness about their importance in conservation of biodiversity, 10 national parks have been established during the time period from 1993 to 2005.
Due to the floods and severe drought conditions, the province faces food insecurity and is 85% dependent on the Sindh and Punjab provinces for the supply of wheat.
Due to the semi-arid climate of Sindh the left out forests support an average population of jackals and snakes.
During Mughal period Punjab region was divided into two provinces; Province of Multan and Province of Lahore.
During Sikh rule, an Italian named Paolo Avitabile was appointed an administrator of Peshawar in 1838, and is remembered for having unleashed a reign of fear there.
During his reign, the Greek explorer Scylax of Caryanda was commissioned to explore the course of the Indus.
During summer, hot winds called Loo blow across the plains during the day.
During summer, monsoon floods of the Jhelum and Leepa river are common, due to high rainfall and melting snow.
During summer, monsoon floods of the Jhelum and Leepa rivers are common, due to high rainfall and melting snow.
During the 1950s, Afghanistan supported the Pushtunistan Movement, a secessionist movement that failed to gain substantial support amongst the tribes of the North-West Frontier Province.
During the 1990s, Pakistan began an ongoing project to rebuild all national highways throughout the country specifically to important financial, cargo and textile centers.
During the 2nd millennium BC, the Punjab region was mentioned in the Rigveda hymns as Sapta Sindhu and in the Avesta religious texts as Hapta Həndu (both terms meaning "seven rivers").
During the Ice Age, the glacier snowline was about 1,300 metres (4,300 ft) lower than today.
During the caliphate of Ali, a revolt broke out in southern Balochistan's Makran region.
During the caliphate of Ali, many Jats of Sindh had come under the influence of Shi'ism and some even participated in the Battle of Camel and died fighting for Ali.
During the independence period there was a Congress-led ministry in the province, which was led by secular Pashtun leaders, including Bacha Khan, who preferred joining India instead of Pakistan.
During the mid-2000s, a multibillion-dollar reconstruction began in the aftermath of the 2005 Kashmir earthquake.
During the most of 15th century, the Khokhars and Gakhars tribes were in general revolt in the Pothohar region.
During the siege of the city's citadel, Alexander leaped into the inner area of the citadel, where he faced the Mallians' leader.
During the summer season, monsoon floods of the rivers Jhelum and Leepa are common due to extreme rains and snow melting.
During the summer, people could walk across the mountain passes to travel to Rawalpindi.
During the times of Indus Valley Civilisation (3300 BCE – 1700 BCE) the Khyber Pass through Hindu Kush provided a route to other neighbouring empires and was used by merchants on trade excursions.
During the treks, tourists are able to view the fragile and beautiful ecosystem of the Thar Desert.
During the winter of 2010, it received no snow and saw below normal rains due to the presence of El-Nino over Pakistan.
During this era, the Rigveda was composed in Punjab, laying the foundation of Hinduism.
Each Department is headed by a Provincial Minister (Politician) and a Provincial Secretary (A civil servant of usually BPS-20 or BPS-21).
Each division is split up into anywhere between two and nine districts, and there are 38 districts in the entire province.
Each division is under an appointed commissioner.
Each major route involved transhipping to pack animal caravan, travel through desert country and risk of bandits and extortionate tolls by local potentates.
Earlier work showed that sand and silt from western Tibet was reaching the Arabian Sea by 45 million years ago, implying the existence of an ancient Indus River by that time.
Earlier, he served as the governor of Multan and fought 28 battles against Mongols from there and saved Punjab and Sindh regions from the advances of Mongols and survived.
Early historical kingdoms that arose in the Indus Valley include Gandhāra and Sindhu-Sauvīra.
East Punjab (48%) became part of India, while West Punjab (52%) became part of Pakistan.
English is co-official and also used in education, while Arabic is used for religious purposes.
European explorers first visited in the early 19th century, followed by British surveyors starting in 1856.
Even at high elevations, annual rainfall is less than 400 millimetres (16 in) and in some places as little as 200 millimetres (8 in).
Even while the Punjab and North-West Frontier Province were ruled by parties hostile to the Muslim League, Sindh remained loyal to Jinnah.
Evenings are cool; the daily variation in temperature may be as much as 11 °C to 17 °C.
Eventually it also reduced the water supply enough to cause the civilisation's demise and to disperse its population to the east.
Eventually, due to panic the government restored the mosque to Muslims.
Except in a legal sense, Azad Kashmir has been fully integrated into Pakistan.
Explorations in the 1910s and 1920s established most of the geography of the region.
Extensive deforestation and human interference in the ecology of the Shivalik Hills has led to a marked deterioration in vegetation and growing conditions.
Faisalabad's clock tower and eight bazaars were designed to represent the Union Jack.
Famous among them was Mir Sayyid Ali Hamadani, who came through Kashmir while in the Gilgit region Islam entered in the same century through Turkic Tarkhan rulers.
Fertile, green, mountainous valleys are characteristic of Azad Kashmir's geography, making it one of the most beautiful regions on the subcontinent.
Fighting ensued between the Indian and Pakistani armies, with the two areas of control more or less stabilised around what is now known as the "Line of Control".
Finally, improper grazing practices in riparian areas, as well as upland areas, can also cause water quality degradation.
First, Islam was introduced into the Southern Punjab in the opening decades of the eighth century.
Fish also played a major role in earlier cultures of the region, including the ancient Indus Valley Civilisation where depictions of fish were frequent.
Fishery and fishing industry plays an important role in the national economy of Pakistan.
Floral surveys were carried out in the Shyok River catchment and from Panamik to Turtuk village by Chandra Prakash Kala during 1999 and 2000.
Following Timur's 1398 Sack of Delhi, he appointed Khizr Khan as deputy of Multan (Punjab).
Following a century of Mauryan rule which ended by 180 BC, the region came under the Indo-Greeks, followed by the Indo Scythians, who ruled with their capital at Minnagara.
Following are the main factors that influence the weather over Pakistan.
Following is a list for the highest peaks of the Karakoram.
Following is a list showing each district ordered by alphabetical order.
Following the Muslim conquests in the Indian subcontinent at the beginning of the 8th century, Arab armies of the Umayyad Caliphate penetrated South Asia, introducing Islam into the Punjab.
Following the Sikh victory at the Battle of Nowshera, Ranjit Singh re-captured Peshawar.
Following the Supreme Court decision, the government took several steps to devolve power to the local level.
Following the disintegration of the Mughal Empire, the shrine's Dīwān was able to forge a political independent state centered on Pakpattan.
Football is the most popular sport among the people of Quetta.
Football, cricket, and volleyball are very popular in Azad Kashmir.
For a period the Sammas were therefore subject to Delhi again.
For clarity, lower peaks with labels overlapping higher peaks are left out of the main image.
For example, in 1936, a British Indian court ruled against the marriage of a Hindu girl allegedly converted to Islam in Bannu, after the girl's family filed a case of abduction and forced conversion.
For most of the history of the North-West Frontier Province (NWFP), there were efforts to change its name.
For over half the year (between September and May), Deosai is snow-bound and cut off from rest of Astore and Baltistan in winters.
For this, India was told to participate 60%, whereas Pakistan, 40%.
Frequent intertribal wars in the post-Vedic period stimulated the growth of larger groupings ruled by chieftains and kings, who ruled local kingdoms known as Mahajanapadas.
Frequently, Indus River is prone to moderate to severe flooding.
From 1500 BCE, Indo-Iranian peoples started to enter in the region from Central Asia after having passed the Khyber Pass.
From March to July 2023, floods caused by monsoon rains returned to Pakistan after nine months.
From then until the 1990s, Gilgit-Baltistan was governed through the colonial-era Frontier Crimes Regulations, which were originally created for the northwest tribal regions.
From there, the line will be extended to Khushka, Turkmenistan.
Further north in the Neelam Valley the dialect, locally also known as Parmi, can more unambiguously be subsumed under Hindko.
Further recommendations of the national parks of the Indomalayan realm were highlighted in the IUCN review of 1986.
Furthermore, these resources are depleting at a rate of one percent, which is having a significant impact on the well-being of the Pakistani population.
GSP purchasing power parity (PPP) of Gilgit-Baltistan was $10 billion and GSP (PPP) per capita of GB was $6,028.
Gandhara was also a central location for the spread of Buddhism to Central Asia and East Asia.
Gandhara was an ancient Indo-Aryan civilization centered in the present-day province.
Gandhara was frequently mentioned in Vedic epics, including Rig Veda, Ramayana and Mahabharata.
General Charles Napier is said to have reported victory to the Governor General with a one-word telegram, namely "Peccavi" – or "I have sinned" (Latin).
Geographically, it covers a total area of 13,297 km2 (5,134 sq mi) and has a total population of over 4.045 million as per the 2017 national census.
Germany, between 2006 and 2014, has also donated $38 million towards the AJK Health Infrastructure Programme.
Ghaffar Khan suggested Pakhtunkhwa, but Zia-ul-Haq asked Ghaffar Khan to suggest an alternative.
Ghanche has a Noorbakhshi population, and Ghizar has an Ismaili majority.
Ghiyath al-Din Tughlaq, the former governor of Multan and Dipalpur founded the Tughlaq dynasty in Delhi and ruled the subcontinent region.
Gilgit Baltistan is home to some of the highest peaks in the world, including K2 the second highest peak in the world.
Gilgit Baltistan is not only known for its mountains — it is also visited for its landmarks, culture, history and people.
Gilgit Baltistan is the capital of tourism in Pakistan.
Gilgit Baltistan's landscape includes mountains, lakes, glaciers and valleys.
Gilgit and Skardu are the two main hubs for expeditions to those mountains.
Gilgit has not received a gas pipeline infrastructure since Pakistan's independence, unlike other cities.
Gilgit is the largest by area and population both for Gilgit-Baltistan.
Gilgit's population did not favour the State's accession to India.
Gilgit-Baltistan covers an area of over 72,496 km2 (27,911 sq mi) and is highly mountainous.
Gilgit-Baltistan is a multilingual region where Urdu being a national and official language serves as the lingua franca for inter ethnic communications.
Gilgit-Baltistan is home to all five of Pakistan's "eight-thousanders" and to more than fifty peaks above 7,000 metres (23,000 ft).
Gilgit-Baltistan is home to diversified cultures, ethnic groups, languages and backgrounds.
Gilgit-Baltistan is home to more than 20 peaks of over 6,100 metres (20,000 ft), including K-2 the second highest mountain on Earth.
Gilgit-Baltistan thus gained a de facto province-like status without constitutionally becoming part of Pakistan.
Gilgit-Baltistan was ruled by many local rulers, among whom the Maqpon dynasty of Skardu and the Rajas of Hunza were famous.
Gilgit-Baltistan, along with the western districts that came to be called Azad Kashmir, have remained under the control of Pakistan ever since.
Gilkar travelled to Srinagar and was arrested by the maharaja's government.
Going downstream these are soon joined by the golden mahseer Tor putitora (alternatively T. macrolepis, although it often is regarded as a synonym of T. putitora) and Schistura loaches.
Going north, the speech forms gradually change into Hindko.
Gosaun was appointed as administrator (Thanadar) of Baltistan and till 1860, the entire region of Gilgit-Baltistan was under the Sikhs and then the Dogras.
Government of Pakistan start new campaign with Clean and Green Pakistan to overcome environmental issues.
Great Palola was subsequently captured by the Chinese army in 753 under military Governor Feng Changqing.
Greg Mortenson details the Karakoram, and specifically K2 and the Balti, extensively in his book Three Cups of Tea, about his quest to build schools for children in the region.
Gujari is most closely related to the Rajasthani languages (particularly Mewati), although it also shares features with Punjabi.
Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism, was born in the town of Nankana Sahib.
Gwadar formally became a part of Pakistan on 8 December 1958, ending 174 years of Omani rule.
Gāndhārī, an Indo-Aryan language written in Kharosthi script, acted as lingua franca of the region.
Haidar Khan from Shigar, one of the leaders of the uprising against the Dogras, was imprisoned and died in captivity.
Half of the annual rainfall occurs in July and August, averaging about 255 millimeters in each of those two months.
Half of the annual rainfall occurs in July and August, averaging about 300 millimetres (11.81 in) in each of those two months.
Hari Singh made a plea to India for assistance and signed the Instrument of Accession, making his state a part of India.
Hari Singh, the maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir, wanted his state to remain independent.
Hazara Motorway one more expressway under construction in KPK province.
He also (1024 and 1025) raided the Pashtuns.
He also conquered Delhi for a brief period in 1431 but was driven out by Mubarak Shah.
He ceded Kalhora, one of the Sindh territories of Sibi-Kachi, to the Khanate of Kalat.
He constructed a harbour at the city of Patala in Sindh.
He further claimed that the "successive governments of Afghanistan only exploited the idea for their own political goals".
He gradually gained control of the lower Rachna doab, including the cities of Chiniot, Pindi Bhattian, Jhang and Mankera.
He had visited the Tang court requesting military assistance against the Tibetans.
He held Lahore, Dipalpur, Multan and Upper Sindh.
He later claimed that "Pashtunistan was never a reality".
He then captured Delhi on 28 May 1414 thereby establishing the Sayyid dynasty.
He was a Khokhar chieftain who travelled to Samarkand and profited from the contacts he made with the Timurid society.
He was a close aide of the Timurid ruler Humayun and was succeeded by the Khanate of Kalat, which owed allegiance to the Mughal Empire.
He was expelled from the city by the Muin tribes under Sarang Khan who occupied Multan in 1395, an Indian Muslim and the brother of Mallu Iqbal Khan, who was the de facto ruler of Delhi.
He was referred to in Chinese records as the king of Great Palola; however, it is unknown if Baltistan was under Gilgit rule at the time.
He was reportedly a trader who used to take goods to Arabia.
He was subsequently arrested several times for his opposition to the strong centralized rule.
Heat records were broken in Multan in June 1993, when the mercury was reported to have risen to 54 °C.
Heavy rains had left the river basin along with the Lake Manchar, Lake Hemal and Kalri Lake (all in modern-day Pakistan) inundated.
Hence this region is prone to violent earthquakes, as the two tectonic plates collide.
Hence, in order to sustain economic growth there is a high demand on already scarce natural resources.
Here is the list of medical colleges in Balochistan, Pakistan.
Here, the river turns into many marshes, streams and creeks and meets the sea at shallow levels.
High levels of pollutants in the river have led to the deaths of endangered Indus River dolphin.
High-velocity winds blow soil from the desert, depositing some of it on neighboring fertile lands, and causing sand dunes within the desert to shift.
Hindko is primarily spoken in the Hazara division in the northeast, and Saraiki-speakers are found in Dera Ismail Khan district in the far south of the province.
Hindus form 249,716 people, comprising approximately 0.20 percent of the population.
His descendants reigned till 1179, when Muhammad of Ghor took Peshawar, making it part of his expanding Ghurid Empire.
His empire survived him in a fragmented manner until the last independent Greek king, Strato II, disappeared around 10 CE.
His son Kadphises II conquered North-Western India, which he governed through his generals.
Historically the economy of Azad Kashmir has been agricultural which meant that land was the main source or mean of production.
Historically, the 1909 The Imperial Gazetteer of India gave it as "just over 1,800 miles".
Historically, the Indus was important to many cultures.
Historically, the province perceived to be a stronghold of the Awami National Party (ANP); a pro-Russian, by procommunist, left-wing and nationalist party.
Hog deer and wild bear occur, particularly in the central inundation belt.
However it is ironic that what the country depends on for its growth is also what threatens the future welfare and success of the country.
However tornadoes mostly occur during spring season that is March and April usually when a Western Disturbance starts effecting the northern parts of the country.
However, British control of parts of the region was routinely challenged by Wazir tribesmen in Waziristan and other Pashtun tribes, who resisted any foreign occupation until Pakistan was created.
However, Major Brown had already telegraphed Khan Abdul Qayyum Khan asking Pakistan to take over.
However, Sarwali Peak (6326 m) in Neelum Valley is the highest peak in the state.
However, Sarwali peak in the Neelum Valley is the highest peak in the state.
However, as of 2015 leaders of Azad Kashmir were opposed to any step towards integrating Gilgit-Baltistan into Pakistan.
However, by 755, due to the An Lushan rebellion, the Tang Chinese forces withdrew and were no longer able to exert influence in Central Asia or in the regions around Gilgit-Baltistan.
However, even during the most humid periods the high altitudes typically allow for some relief from the heat overnight.
However, faced with growing influence of the Umayyad Caliphate and then the Abbasid Caliphate to the west, the Tibetans were forced to ally themselves with the Islamic caliphates.
However, for the election to the reserved seats for women in Zila Council proportionately divided among tehsils or towns shall be all members of the union councils in a tehsil or town.
However, foreign lenders provide most environmental protection funds, and only 0.04 percent of the government's development budget goes to environmental protection.
However, in the seventh NFC awards, Punjab province and the Federal contributed to increase Baluchistan share more than its entitled population-based share.
However, it is notable that majority of the Indus script seals and inscribed objects discovered were found at sites along the Indus river.
However, no withdrawal was ever carried out.
However, only 2.2% were graduates, compared to the average of 2.9% for Pakistan.
However, the Chach Nama states that the raiders of Debal were defeated and its governor killed the leader of the raids.
However, the Christian community has been struggling to get residential status and property rights in AJK.
However, the Fokker F27 was retired after a crash at Multan in 2006.
However, the PML (N) parliamentary party of NWFP rejected the ANP demand but called for Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif to suggest another "non-controversial" name.
However, the following is a list of the most important subranges, following Jerzy Wala.
However, the following year, the party passed an "Azad Kashmir resolution" demanding that the maharaja institute a constituent assembly elected on an extended franchise.
However, the humidity is extremely low during these hot spells and, as a result, the summer climate is less torrid than in the rest of the Indian subcontinent.
However, the records do not consistently disambiguate the two.
However, the study also concluded that in Pakistan, "the traffic noise levels limit as laid down by National Environment Quality standards, Environmental Protection Agency is 85 dB".
However, the ultimate outcome of the corridor's success is intricately tied to Pakistan's internal circumstances.
However, there are probably fewer Afghans living in Balochistan today as many refugees repatriated in 2013.
However, this government quickly fizzled out with the arrest of Anwar in Srinagar.
Hundreds of people continued to live in tents long after the earthquake.
Hydrological power is a renewable resource which benefits Pakistan a lot.
I don't know the answer to that question," he says.
I shall not tolerate this nonsense for one instance... And when the Indian Army starts invading you there will be no use screaming to Pakistan for help, because you won't get it."...
Immediately prior to 1947 Partition of India, the British held a referendum in the NWFP to allow voters to choose between joining India or Pakistan.
In 1398, Timur attacked the Punjab region.
In 1445, Sultan Qutbudin, chief of Langah tribe, established the Langah Sultanate in Multan.
In 1543, Mughal emperor Humayun came to Quetta en route to Safavid Persia, leaving his son and future Mughal emperor Akbar here.
In 1591-1593, Akbar sent an army to conquer lower Sindh from the Tarkhan dynasty after defeating the last Tarkhan ruler, Mirza Jani Beg; Jani Beg and his son Mirza Ghazi Beg.
In 1709, the region was a part of Afghan Hotak dynasty and stayed a part until 1747 when Ahmed Shah Durrani conquered it and made it a part of Durrani Empire.
In 1749, the Mughal ruler was induced to cede Sindh, the Punjab region and the important trans Indus River to Ahmad Shah in order to save his capital from the Durrani attack.
In 1757, Dīwān 'Abd as-Subḥān gathered an army of his Jat murīds, attacked the Raja of Bikaner, and thereby expanded the shrine's territorial holdings for the first time east of the Sutlej.
In 1809, the British sent an emissary to the court of Shah Shujah in Peshawar, marking the first diplomatic meeting between the British and Afghans.
In 1823, Ranjit Singh returned to capture Peshawar, and was met by the armies of Azim Khan at Nowshera.
In 1842, Dogra Commander Wasir Lakhpat, with the active support of Ali Sher Khan (III) from Kartaksho, conquered Baltistan for the second time.
In 1856, British General John Jacob had urged his government to occupy Quetta given its strategic position on the western frontier.
In 1876, northern Baluchistan became one of the presidencies and provinces of British India in colonial India.
In 1877, the British made an agreement with then Khan of Kalat, Mir Khudadad Khan to rule Quetta, which started the regime of Sir Robert Groves Sandeman.
In 1887, small additional areas of Balochistan were declared British territory.
In 1901, the British carved out the northwest portions of Punjab Province to create the Northwest Frontier Province (NWFP), which was renamed "Khyber Pakhtunkhwa" in 2010.
In 1919 a British officer ordered his troops to fire on a crowd of demonstrators, mostly Sikhs in Amritsar.
In 1947, violence did not constitute a major part of the Sindhi partition experience, unlike in Punjab.
In 1947, when Pakistan gained independence there were 124 districts.
In 1948, Karachi was separated from Sind Province to form the Federal Capital Territory.
In 1949, a formal cease-fire line separating the Indian- and Pakistani-controlled parts of Kashmir came into effect.
In 1949, the Government of Azad Kashmir handed over the administration of Gilgit-Baltistan to the federal government under the Karachi Agreement.
In 1952, the four princely states in the southwest formed the Baluchistan States Union.
In 1960, the federal capital was moved from Karachi to Rawalpindi and in 1961, the Federal Capital Territory was also merged into West Pakistan.
In 1962, Dacca was made the legislative capital of the country due to East Pakistan's high population.
In 1966, the capital was again moved to the newly constructed city of Islamabad.
In 1969, 2 new districts (Tangail and Patuakhali) in East Pakistan were formed, bringing the total to 126.
In 1969, a Northern Areas Advisory Council (NAAC) was created, later renamed to Northern Areas Council (NAC) in 1974 and Northern Areas Legislative Council (NALC) in 1994.
In 1971, the Bengali-majority wing of East Pakistan seceded from the Pakistani union following the Bangladesh Liberation War, consequently forming the independent People's Republic of Bangladesh.
In 1972, the then current border between the Indian and Pakistani controlled parts of Kashmir was designated as the "Line of Control".
In 1974, the remaining princely states of Hunza and Nagar were abolished and their territories merged into the Gilgit Agency, following which the Northern Areas were formed.
In 1975, portions of the districts of Peshawar and Dera Ismail Khan were separated to form the Federally Administered Tribal Areas.
In 1981, the region surrounding Islamabad was separated from Punjab province, and renamed to the Islamabad Capital Territory.
In 1984 the territory's importance shot up within Pakistan with the opening of the Karakoram Highway and the region's population became more connected to mainland Pakistan.
In 1992 flooding during Monsoon season killed 1,834 people across the country.
In 1993 flooding during Monsoon rains killed 3,083 people over South Asia, 15 of whom were in Pakistan.
In 1994, a Legal Framework Order (LFO) was created by the KANA Ministry to serve as the de facto constitution for the region.
In 2001–2002, poverty incidences were at 48% and by 2005–2006, these were at 50.9%.
In 2002, the city received snow after a gap of five years.
In 2003, the province manufactured 90% of the paper and paper boards, 71% of the fertilisers, 69% of the sugar and 40% of the cement of Pakistan.
In 2004 and 2005, the city received normal rains after three years without snowfall while in 2006, 2007 and 2009 the city received no snow.
In 2005, the coalition successfully passed the "Prohibition of Use of Women in Photograph Bill, 2005," leading to the removal of all public advertisements that featured women.
In 2007, Punjab achieved a growth rate of 7.8% and during the period 2002–03 to 2007–08, its economy grew at a rate of between 7% and 8% per year.
In 2008, after the public elections, the new government decided to restore the structure of Divisions of all provinces.
In 2008, it received a snowfall of 10 centimetres (4 in) in four hours on 29 January, followed on 2 February by 25.4 centimetres (10 in) in 10 hours – the city's heaviest snowfall in a decade.
In 2008, the government restored the former divisions and appointed commissioners.
In 2009, the Northern Areas were renamed to Gilgit-Baltistan, and retained its formal status as an autonomous territory.
In 2010, the North-West Frontier Province was formally renamed to Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
In 2010, the announcement that the province would have a new name led to a wave of protests in the Hazara region.
In 2010, the name of the province changed to "Khyber Pakhtunkhwa".
In 2011 the provincial government approved in principle the introduction of Pashto, Saraiki, Hindko, Khowar and Kohistani as compulsory subjects for schools in the areas where they are spoken.
In 2012, 25 of these were under supervision of respective provincial governments and remaining were in private care.
In 2016, for the first time in the country's constitution, Gilgit-Baltistan was mentioned by name.
In 2017 census, Gilgit District has the highest population of 330,000 and Hunza District the lowest of 50,000.
In 2018, Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) was merged with Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and FATA agencies were converted into districts.
In 2018, a young entrepreneur in Karachi, Abid Omar, launched the Pakistan Air Quality Initiative to monitor air quality in Pakistan's big cities.
In 2018, the National Assembly of Pakistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Provincial Assembly passed the historic FATA Merger Bill with the Twenty-Fifth Constitutional Amendment.
In 2019 M-3 became operational, which connects Lahore with Multan through Abdul Hakeem and the existing M4 near Multan.
In 2019, 2 more private ride-sharing services introduced specifically in the city of Karachi named Airlift and SWVL.
In 2020, the Kemari District was created after splitting Karachi West District.
In 2020, the then Pakistani prime minister Imran Khan announced that Gilgit-Baltistan would attain provisional provincial status after the 2020 Gilgit-Baltistan Assembly election.
In 2023, Sunil Bajpai and colleagues described the remains of Tharosaurus indicus, a new species of the herbivorous sauropod dinosaur found in the Thar Desert in India.
In 2025, the Government of Punjab launched the Green E-Taxi Scheme to provide electric vehicles for taxi drivers, aiming to reduce emissions and modernize urban transport.
In 712, Mohammed Bin Qasim defeated the Brahmin dynasty and annexed it to the Umayyad Caliphate.
In 720, the delegation of Surendrāditya (Chinese: 蘇麟陀逸之; pinyin: sūlíntuóyìzhī) reached the Chinese imperial court.
In 721–722, the Tibetan army attempted but failed to capture Gilgit or Bruzha (Yasin Valley).
In 737/738, Tibetan troops under the leadership of Minister Bel Kyesang Dongtsab of Emperor Me Agtsom took control of Little Palola.
In August 2000, divisions were abolished as part of a plan to restructure local governments, followed by elections in 2001.
In August the oppressive heat is punctuated by the rainy season, referred to as barsat, which brings relief in its wake.
In Azad Jammu and Kashmir, a second-tier of government was formed from three administrative divisions into ten districts.
In Body Building Nisar Ahmed Khilji has Mr. Balochistan and Mr. Pakistan Titles and Pakistan representation in International Body Building Contests.
In Ghangha Pur, a 2 ft (610 mm) narrow-gauge horse-drawn tramway is operational.
In Gilgit–Baltistan, there are ten districts divided between the two regions of Gilgit and Baltistan.
In Islamabad, there are cold winds from the north of Pakistan.
In January 1991 a severe earthquake destroyed entire villages in the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, but far fewer people were killed in the quake than died in 1935.
In July 2010, following abnormally heavy monsoon rains, the Indus River rose above its banks and started flooding.
In May 2005, the Punjab provincial government created a new district by raising the status of Nankana Sahib from a tehsil of Sheikhupura District to a district in its own right.
In November 1839, Dogra commander Zorawar Singh, whose allegiance was to Gulab Singh, started his campaign against Baltistan.
In November 2011, satellite images showed that the Indus River had re-entered India and was feeding the Great Rann of Kutch, Little Rann of Kutch and a lake near Ahmedabad known as Nal Sarovar.
In Pakistan, inhabitants include both Muslims and Hindus.
In September 1974, in a visit to Northern Areas the Pakistani prime minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto announced the abolition of Hunza state.
In September 2015, a case was filed in Supreme Court of Pakistan against Government of Punjab, Pakistan as it did not take any step to implement the Punjabi language in the province.
In September 2020, it was reported that Pakistan decided to elevate Gilgit-Baltistan's status to that of a full-fledged province.
In Sindh after the lapse of the Local Governments Bodies term in 2010 the Divisional Commissioners system was to be restored.
In Sindh's first provincial election after its separation from Bombay in 1936, economic interests were an essential factor of politics informed by religious and cultural issues.
In Sindh, the Indus burst its banks near Sukkur on 8 August, submerging the village of Mor Khan Jatoi.
In Spring 1947, an uprising against the maharaja broke out in Poonch, an area bordering the Rawalpindi division of West Punjab.
In a peace treaty, Seleucus ceded all territories west of the Indus River and offered a marriage, including a portion of Bactria, while Chandragupta granted Seleucus 500 elephants.
In a recent study conducted by the Global CLEAN campaign, it was found that the average temperature in Pakistan had risen by 0.2 degrees in only two years.
In addition to agriculture, textiles, and arts and crafts, remittances have played a major role in the economy of Azad Kashmir.
In addition to increased heat, drought and extreme weather in parts of the country, the melting of glaciers in the Himalayas has impacted some of the important rivers of Pakistan.
In addition to these departments, there are several Autonomous Bodies and Attached Departments that report directly to either the Secretaries or the Chief Secretary.
In addition, Quetta Development Authority is responsible for provision of municipal services for the city.
In addition, Sindh's politics leans towards the left-wing and its political culture serves as a dominant place for the left-wing spectrum in the country.
In brackets are the figures given by the UNOSAT.
In central Punjab, the Lahore-Sialkot Motorway (M-11) opened on 18 March 2020 and in KPK province, the Hakka-Dera Ismail Khan Motorway (M14) is also under construction.
In common with the other provinces of Pakistan, Balochistan has a parliamentary form of government.
In early 2007, the province experienced one of the coldest winters in the last 70 years.
In fact, it suppresses that entity so completely that when composing the name "Pakistan" for our homelands, I had to call the North-West Frontier Province the Afghan Province.
In hockey, Quetta has produced Zeeshan Ashraf and Shakeel Abbasi, who were members of the Pakistan's national hockey team.
In its judgement of 28 May 1999, the Court directed the Government of Pakistan to ensure the provision of equal rights to the people of Gilgit-Baltistan, and gave it six months to do so.
In just a year it has added three-quarters of a billion new trees, as part of a “tree tsunami” aimed at reversing worsening forest loss.
In many ways, they have more in common regarding climate with Central Asia than South Asia.
In matters of civil administration, the Chief Secretary assists the Chief Minister on executing its right to ensure the writ of the government and the constitution.
In metropolitan cities such as Karachi and Hyderabad, the MQM (another party of the left with the support of Muhajirs) has a considerable vote bank and support.
In mid-600s, Gilgit came under Chinese suzerainty after the fall of the Western Turkic Khaganate to Tang military campaigns in the region.
In order to promote public use, construction of roads and rest houses is permitted.
In recent years, new national highways have been built, with the addition of motorways which have improved trade and logistics within the country.
In response to the levees construction, the river has been aggrading rapidly over the last 20 years leading to breaches upstream of barrages and inundation of large areas.
In rural areas, the literacy rate is 48.44% of the population while in urban areas it is 66.86%.
In some upland lakes and tributaries of the Punjab region snow trout and mahseer are still common, but once the Indus basin reaches its lower plain the former group is absent and the latter are rare.
In spite of various reforms packages over the years, the situation is essentially unchanged.
In the 10th century, the tribe of the Gakhars/Khokhars, formed a large part of the Hindu Shahi army according to the Persian historian Firishta.
In the 14th century, Sufi Muslim preachers from Persia and Central Asia introduced Islam in Baltistan.
In the 15th century, Mir Chakar Rind became the first Sirdar of Afghan, Iranian, and Pakistani Balochistan.
In the 1st century, the people of these regions were followers of the Bon religion while in the 2nd century, they practised Buddhism.
In the 2008 election, the ANP won two Sindh assembly seats in Karachi.
In the 2013 general election Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf won a majority in the provincial assembly and has now formed their government in coalition with Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan.
In the 6th century Somana Palola (greater Gilgit-Chilas) was ruled by an unknown king.
In the Indus valley, the Acacia nilotica (babul) (babbur) is the most dominant and occurs in thick forests along the Indus banks.
In the Kirthar range at 1,800 m (5,900 ft) and higher at Gorakh Hill and other peaks in Dadu District, temperatures near freezing have been recorded and brief snowfall is received in the winters.
In the Lasbela, Hub districts and in Kachhi plain region a large minority of the population speaks Lasi and Siraiki, which are dialects of Sindhi.
In the Rigveda, notably in the later hymns, the meaning of the word is narrowed to refer to the Indus River in particular; for example, in the list of rivers mentioned in the hymn of Nadistuti sukta.
In the South, Punjab's elevation reaches 2,327 metres (7,635 ft) near the hill station of Fort Munro in Dera Ghazi Khan.
In the central and northern parts of state weather remains moderate hot in summers and very cold and chilly in winter.
In the central and northern parts of the state, the weather remains moderately hot in the summer and cold and chilly in the winter.
In the centre is a fertile plain along the Indus River.
In the cooler months, nights can be cold and frosts remain frequent; snow is very rare, and daytime temperatures remain comfortably warm with abundant sunshine.
In the district of Lasbela, there is an oil refinery owned by Byco International Incorporated (BII), which is capable of processing 120,000 barrels of oil per day.
In the elevated areas that are less populated and more spread out, forestry, corn, and livestock are the main sources of income.
In the last ice age, a connected series of glaciers stretched from western Tibet to Nanga Parbat, and from the Tarim Basin to the Gilgit District.
In the late 16th century, Sindh was brought into the Mughal Empire by Akbar, himself born in the Sodha kingdom in Umerkot in Sindh.
In the late 1990s, the President of Al-Jihad Trust filed a petition in the Supreme Court of Pakistan to determine the legal status of Gilgit-Baltistan.
In the late 600s CE, the rising Tibetan Empire wrestled control of the region from the Chinese.
In the late 600s and early 700s, Jayamaṅgalavikramāditya-nandin was king of Gilgit.
In the long run, the glaciers are vital lifelines of the Indus River.
In the mid-1950s various economic and social development processes were launched in Azad Kashmir.
In the ninth century, the Hindu Shahi dynasty originating from the region of Oddiyana replaced the Taank kingdom in the Punjab, ruling much of Punjab along with eastern Afghanistan.
In the north, the Karakoram glaciers joined those from the Kunlun Mountains and flowed down to 2,000 metres (6,600 ft) in the Tarim Basin.
In the northernmost district of Neelam, there are small communities of speakers of several other languages.
In the past 5 years, many new motorways have opened up, including the M-1 and M-4.
In the rest of the country, temperatures reach great heights in the summer; the mean temperature during June is 38 °C (100 °F) in the plains, the highest temperatures can exceed 53 °C (127 °F).
In the short term, this will cause lakes to expand and bring floods and mudflows...
In the sixteenth century two Sufi tareeqat (orders) – Qadria and Naqshbandia – were introduced in Sindh.
In the spring of 327 BC Alexander the Great crossed the Hindu Kush and advanced to Nicaea, where Omphis, king of Taxila and other chiefs joined him.
In the true desert areas, the only sources of water for animals or humans are small, scattered ponds - some that are natural (tobas) and some that are human-made (johads).
In the valleys, however, summers can be hotter than on the windward side of the mountains due to lower cloud cover: Chitral can reach 40 °C (104 °F) frequently during this period.
In the winter, snowfall has become quite erratic (December, January and February).
In this campaign, local Sindhi Muslims identified 'Hindu' with Bombay instead of Sindh.
In total, there are 145 districts in Pakistan.
In traditional Indian geography, the mountains were known as Krishnagiri (black mountains), Kanhagiri, and Kanheri.
In winter, phytoplankton suited to low-oxygen conditions turn the OMZ bright green.
Included are some of the mountains named with a K code, the most well-known of which is the K2.
India air-lifted troops to defend the Kashmir Valley and the invaders were pushed back behind Uri.
India contains another large portion (35%) of the Indus Basin's population.
India insisted that Pakistan had to withdraw first and Pakistan contended there was no guarantee that India would withdraw afterwards.
India later approached the United Nations, asking it to resolve the dispute, and resolutions were passed in favour of the holding of a plebiscite with regard to Kashmir's future.
Indian forces mounted an offensive in the autumn of 1948 to push them back from Ladakh, but Baltistan came into the rebels' territory.
Indian troops were immediately airlifted into Srinagar.
Initially aspiring for independence, the Khan of Kalat finally acceded to Pakistan on 27 March 1948 following a period of negotiations with Pakistan.
Irrigation canals were first built by the people of the Indus Valley Civilisation, and later by the engineers of the Kushan Empire and the Mughal Empire.
Irrigation itself is increasing soil salinization, reducing crop yields and in some cases rendering farmland useless for cultivation.
Islam became dominant in the region after the 11th-century conquest of the Hindu Shahi kingdom by the Ghaznavids.
Islam emerged as the major power in Punjab after the Umayyad army led by Muhammad ibn al-Qasim conquered the region in 711 AD.
Islam in Sindh has a long history, starting with the capture of Sindh by Muhammad Bin Qasim in 712.
Islam in Sindh has a strong Sufi ethos with numerous Muslim saints and mystics, such as the Sufi poet Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai, having lived in Sindh historically.
Islamic architecture is quite prominent as well as colonial and post-partition sites.
Jaisalmer was founded as the new capital in 1156 by Maharawal Jaisal Singh and the state took its name from the capital.
Jam Unar was the founder of Samma dynasty mentioned by Ibn Battuta.
Jasrath Khokhar was one of their major chiefs who helped Sultan Zain Ul Abideen of Kashmir Sultanate to gain his throne and ruled over vast tracts of Jammu and North Punjab.
Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Mumbai is the largest port in the Arabian Sea, and the largest container port in India.
Jayapala defaulted on the payment and took to the battlefield once more.
Jayapala however, lost control of the entire region between the Kabul Valley and Indus River.
Jinnah and his successors allowed Yar Khan to retain his title until the province's dissolution in 1955.
Jodhpur, the largest city in the region, lies in the scrub forest zone at the desert's perimeter.
Just before his death, he called his son Sayyid Ala-ud-Din Shah from Badaun, and nominated him as successor.
K2 Basecamp, Deosai, Naltar, Fairy Meadows Bagrot Valley and Hushe valley are common places to visit in Gilgit Baltistan.
K2 Kahani (The K2 Story) by Mustansar Hussain Tarar describes his experiences at K2 base camp.
Karachi district has been de-merged into its five original constituent districts: Karachi East, Karachi West, Karachi Central, Karachi South and Malir.
Karachi, located along the southern coast, is the capital and largest city.
Karakoram is a Turkic term meaning black gravel.
Khizr Khan did not take up the title of Sultan, but continued the fiction of his allegiance to Timur as Rayat-i-Ala (vassal) of the Timurids - initially that of Timur, and later his son Shah Rukh.
Khizr Khan established the Sayyid dynasty, the fourth dynasty of the Delhi Sultanate, with four rulers ruling from 1414 to 1451 for 37 years.
Khizr Khan was originally a noble in the Delhi Sultanate during the Tughlaq Dynasty and was the governor of Multan under Sultan Firuz Shah.
Khizr Khan was succeeded by his son Sayyid Mubarak Shah after his death on 20 May 1421.
Khowar folk music is popular in Chitral and northern Swat.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and North eastern Punjab were badly affected during the monsoon rains when dams, rivers and lakes overflowed.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has a huge gap in literacy rate between sexes – for men it is 66.67% while the female literacy rate is 34.58%, just over half the male literacy rate.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has a varied geography of rugged mountain ranges, valleys, rolling foothills, and dense agricultural farms.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has the third largest provincial economy in Pakistan.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has traditionally had a very low literacy rate, although this is changing in recent times.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa was thought to be another leftist region of the country after Sindh.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa's share of Pakistan's GDP has historically comprised 10.5%, although the province accounts for 11.9% of Pakistan's total population.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa's share of Pakistan's GDP has historically comprised 10.5%, amounting to over US$ 30 billion.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa,[b] commonly abbreviated KP or KPK and formerly known as the North-West Frontier Province (NWFP), is a province of Pakistan.
Lahore and Gujranwala Divisions have the largest concentration of small light engineering units.
Lahore is the capital and largest city of the province.
Lahore was a noted center of learning and culture, and Rawalpindi became an important military installation.
Lal Suhanra is the only national park established before the independence of the nation in August 1947.
Landslides are common in the northern mountains.
Landslides on the Karakoram Highway are very common.
Large-scale diversion of the river's water for irrigation has raised far-reaching issues.
Largely underdeveloped, its economy is also dominated by natural resources, especially its natural gas fields.
Later Anchan in his successors Abdal Khan had great influence though in the popular literature of Baltistan, where he is still alive as a dark figure by the nickname "Mizos", "man-eater".
Later on 22 October 1947, tribal militias backed by Pakistan crossed the border into Jammu and Kashmir after Poonch rebellion and Jammu Muslim massacre.
Later on, Sasanian rulers from the reign of Shapur I claimed control of the Sindh area in their inscriptions, known as Hind.
Later the kingdom of Axum arose in Ethiopia to rule a mercantile empire rooted in the trade with Europe via Alexandria.
Later, Nader Shah won the allegiance of the rulers of eastern Balochistan.
Later, as the Sultanate of Delhi collapsed they became fully independent.
Later, desire for a separate administrative status for Sindh grew.
Later, local rulers once again pledged loyalty to the Mughal emperor.
Later, the establishment of a chamber of commerce and the Sust dry port in Gojal Hunza are milestones.
Launched from the capital territory, iCAB will expand its operations to overall 13 cities of the country.
Leaving his second son Timur Shah to safeguard his interests, Ahmad Shah left India to return to Afghanistan.
Less than one-fifth of Pakistan's land area has the potential for intensive agricultural use.
Liaquat Ali Khan appointed a committee headed by Mian Iftikharuddin to draft a "declaration of freedom".
Lithic tools belonging to the prehistoric Aterian culture of the Maghreb have been discovered in Middle Paleolithic deposits in the Thar Desert.
Local facilities were created in the city for mountain climbing and caving as well as water sports.
Local household industries produce carved wooden objects, textiles, and dhurrie carpets.
Local inhabitants have chosen to live in towns and have relied on sustainable water sources for thousands of years.
Located in northern Balochistan near the Pakistan-Afghanistan border and the road across to Kandahar, Quetta is a trade and communication centre between the two countries.
Located in the central-eastern region of the country, it has the largest economy, contributing the most to national GDP in Pakistan.
Located in the northwestern region of the country, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa is the fourth largest province of Pakistan by land area and the third-largest province by population.
Located in the southwestern region of the country, Balochistan is the largest province of Pakistan by land area but is the least populated one.
Lower Indus Plain starts from Mithankot up to Thatta where the Indus meets with the Indian Ocean.
Lower Sindh has a damper and humid maritime climate affected by the southwestern winds in summer and northeastern winds in winter, with lower rainfall than Central Sindh.
Lower Sindh's maximum temperature reaches about 35–38 °C (95–100 °F).
Lower flows due to the Indus Waters Treaty, as well as diversion to canals, means that lower dilution flows are available within the rivers of Pakistan.
Luxury SUVs and cars are owned by the elite in urban cities and by many large landowners in the villages and rural areas, thus making them a fairly common sight in Pakistan.
Maharawals Ranjit Singh and Bairi Sal Singh attempted to reverse the economic decline, but the kingdom nevertheless became impoverished.
Mahmud Shah Durrani became king, and quickly sought to seize Peshawar from his half-brother, Shah Shujah Durrani.
Main football clubs from Quetta include Baloch Quetta, Hazara Club Quetta.
Major carp become common, and chameleonfish (Badis), mullet (Sicamugil) and swamp eel (Monopterus) appear.
Major cultural events include the Shandoor Polo Festival, Babusar Polo Festival and Jashn-e-Baharan or the Harvest Time Festival (Navroz).
Major visitor attractions there include Lahore Fort and Shalimar Gardens, which are now recognised World Heritage Sites.
Mango, date palms and the more recently introduced banana, guava, orange and chiku are the typical fruit-bearing trees.
Many alternative names were proposed for the province.
Many flyovers and underpasses are located in major urban areas of the country to regulate the flow of traffic.
Many of the functions previously handled at a provincial level had been transferred to individual districts and tehsils.
Many of the species of the middle sections of the Indus basin are also present in the lower.
Many of these carvings and inscriptions will be inundated and/or destroyed when the planned Basha-Diamir dam is built and the Karakoram Highway is widened.
Many of these were designed to avoid or balance the ethnic connotations of Pakhtunkhwa.
Many people in this region are therefore Omani.
Many such peaks and mountains with less than sufficient prominence are included but not numbered in the list.
Many tournaments are also held throughout the year and in the holy month of Ramazan, night-time flood-lit tournaments are also organised.
Many types of sports are in currency, throughout the region, but most popular of them is Polo.
Many women in rural Sindh are skilled in the production of caps.
Marcel Ichac made a film titled Karakoram, chronicling a French expedition to the range in 1936.
Masirah and the five Khuriya Muriya Islands are islands off the southeastern coast of Oman.
Mauryan rule began with Chandragupta Maurya displacing the Nanda Empire, establishing the Mauryan Empire.
Meanwhile, Baghwan Singh was appointed as administrator (thanadar) in Skardu.
Meanwhile, Sindhi politics was characterised in the 1920s by the growing importance of Karachi and the Khilafat Movement.
Meanwhile, a container train service was launched by the former Prime Minister of Pakistan Yousuf Raza Gilani between Islamabad and Istanbul on 14 August 2009.
Meanwhile, the Pashtuns now appeared as a political factor.
Members of the union council including Union Administrator and Vice Union Administrator are elected through direct elections based on adult franchise and on the basis of joint electorate.
Members of tribes had to obtain prior permission from the police to travel anywhere, and had to keep the police informed about their movements.
Menander I Soter conquered Punjab and made Sagala (present-day Sialkot) the capital of the Indo-Greek Kingdom.
Menander is noted for becoming a patron and converting to Greco-Buddhism and he is widely regarded as the greatest of the Indo-Greek kings.
Minor leftist parties such as the People's Movement also found support in rural areas of the province.
Mirpur, Kotli, and Bhimber are all old towns of the Jammu region.
Modern Iran has a province named Sistan va Baluchistan that borders Pakistan and has Baluchis in an ethnic majority.
Modern day Quetta was captured by Sultan Mahmud Ghaznavi during his invasion of India.
Modern irrigation was introduced by the British East India Company in 1850 – the construction of modern canals accompanied with the restoration of old canals.
Mohammad bin Tughlaq made an expedition against Sindh in 1351 and died at Sondha, possibly in an attempt to restore the Soomras.
Mohenjo-daro was abandoned in the 19th century BC as the Indus Valley Civilization declined, and the site was not rediscovered until the 1920s.
More than 60% of the desert lies in the Indian state of Rajasthan; the portion in India also extends into Gujarat, Punjab, and Haryana.
More than one-half of the summits are over 4,500 meters, and more than fifty peaks reach above 6,500 meters.
Moreover, Pakistan is home to over 7,000 glaciers, more than anywhere except the polar regions.
Most Punjabis supported the British during World War I, providing men and resources to the war effort even though the Punjab remained a source of anti-colonial activities.
Most areas in Punjab experience extreme weather with foggy winters, often accompanied by rain.
Most notably Airblue which is the second biggest airline based in Pakistan and only airline which has new generation aircraft with 2 Airbus A321neo-LRs.
Most of the Karakoram is located within the Pakistani-administered Gilgit-Baltistan region.
Most of the Punjabi homeland formed a province of British India, though a number of small princely states retained local rulers who recognised British authority.
Most of the area would eventually revert to local Baloch control after Afghan rule.
Most of the basin is arid or semi-arid, with the exception of the Himalayan foothills which receive significant rainfall.
Most of the high peaks in Pakistan lie specifically in Gilgit–Baltistan with the exception of a few 7,000+ m peaks in the high Hindu Kush (the peaks marked in the northwest most region of Pakistan).
Most of the influential Sindhi tribes in the province are involved in Pakistan's politics.
Most of the information about its existence comes from the Chach Nama, a historical account of the Chach-Brahmin dynasty.
Most of the permanent human settlements are located near the two seasonal streams of the Karon-Jhar hills.
Motorcycling is another means of transportation in Pakistan.
Mountain glaciers may serve as an indicator of climate change, advancing and receding with long-term changes in temperature and precipitation.
Mubarak Shah referred to himself as Muizz-ud-Din Mubarak Shah on his coins, removing the Timurid name with the name of the Caliph, and declared himself a Shah.
Much of it tastes sour due to dissolved minerals.
Much of the desert area is covered by huge, shifting sand dunes that receive sediments from the alluvial plains and the coast.
Much of the population of Gilgit-Baltistan reportedly wants the territory to become integrated with Pakistan proper as a fifth province, and opposes integration with the rest of the Kashmir region.
Much of the province south of the Quetta region is sparse desert terrain with pockets of inhabitable towns mostly near rivers and streams.
Mughal suzerainty over the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region was partially established after Babar, the founder of the Mughal Empire, invaded the region in 1505 CE via the Khyber Pass.
Muhammad Waseem is a professional boxer from Quetta.
Multan and Uch were conquered after 3 attacks, and Multan's ruler, Abul Fateh Daud was defeated, famous Sun Temple was destroyed.
Multan is known for its mausoleums of saints and Sufi pirs.
Multan was the noted center of excellence of the region, which was attacked by the Greek army during the era of Alexander the Great.
Murree is a famous hill station stop for tourists.
Muslim Town Flyover, Lahore is the longest flyover of the country with a length of about 2.6 km (1.6 mi).
Muslims in the western districts of the Jammu province (current day Azad Kashmir) and in the Frontier Districts province (current day Gilgit-Baltistan) had wanted to join Pakistan.
Muslims who migrated to Pakistan during the partition of India in 1947 still venerate him as Baba Haji Ratan.
Muzaffarabad and Pattan are among the wettest areas of Pakistan.
Muzaffarabad and Pattan are among the wettest areas of the state, but they don't receive snow.
Muzaffarabad and Pattan are among the wettest areas of the state.
Nationalists declared the independence of India from Lahore in 1930 but were quickly suppressed.
Natural sites, like Manchar Lake have increasingly been a source of sustainable tourism in the province.
Near the Indus River, the terminus of the Sheikh Badin Hills is a spur of limestone hills known as the Kafir Kot hills, where the ancient Hindu complex of Kafir Kot is located.
Nearly 87% of Azad Kashmiri households own farm property, and the region has the highest rate of school enrolment in Pakistan and a literacy rate of approximately 74%.
Nearly all of the arable land is actively cultivated, but outputs are low by world standards.
Neelum and Kotli are the largest districts of Azad Kashmir by area and population respectively.
Nevertheless, the development of national parks was mainly carried out by National Conservation Strategy of 1992.
New Mirpur City has a cricket stadium (Quaid-e-Azam Stadium) which has been taken over by the Pakistan Cricket Board for renovation to bring it up to the international standards.
Next chief, Inayatullah Khan (r. 1747– 1787) was a successful general who won 22 battles against Bhangi Misl and the Multan chiefs.
Next to these islands are the Maldives islands.
Non-Islamic festivals include Lohri, Basant and Vaisakhi, which are usually celebrated as seasonal festivals.
Non-governmental organisations (NGOs) such as the World Wildlife Fund, Pakistan, play an important role to promote the culture of Sindh.
North-south valleys in Balochistan and Sindh have restricted the migration of peoples along the Makran Coast on the Indian Ocean east toward the plains.
Northern Areas Transport Corporation (NATCO) offers bus and jeep transport service to the two hubs and several other popular destinations, lakes, and glaciers in the area.
Northern Azad Kashmir lies in a region that experiences strong vibrations of the earth as a result of the Indian plate underthrusting the Eurasian plate.
Not all ethnic Gujars speak Gujari, the proportion of those who have shifted to other languages is probably higher in southern Azad Kashmir.
Not only was his territory reinstated but also expanded with Alexander's forces annexing the territories of Glausaes, who ruled to the northeast of Porus' kingdom.
Now, on one side, there are identity issues and ethnic issues and provincial autonomy issues.
Numerous Sanskrit inscriptions, including the Danyor Rock Inscriptions, were discovered to be from his reign.
OMZs have very low levels of oxygen, sometimes so low as to be undetectable by standard equipment.
Occasionally, strong windstorms make these areas very inhospitable.
Official estimates of Balochistan's population grew from approximately 7.45 million in 2003 to 7.8 million in 2005.
On 1 April 1883, the British took control of the Bolan Pass, south-east of Quetta, from the Khan of Kalat.
On 1 January 1948, India took the issue of Jammu and Kashmir to the United Nations Security Council.
On 10 April, the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Police fired at unarmed protesters, leaving 7 dead and dozens injured.
On 11 December 1818 Jaisalmer became a British protectorate through the Rajputana Agency.
On 15 April 2010, Pakistan's senate officially named the province "Khyber Pakhtunkhwa" with 80 senators in favour and 12 opposed.
On 18 November 1738, Peshawar was captured from the Mughal governor Nawab Nasir Khan by the Afsharid armies during the Persian invasion of the Mughal Empire under Nader Shah.
On 21 October, several thousand Pashtun tribesmen from North-West Frontier Province poured into Jammu and Kashmir to help with the rebellion against the maharaja's rule.
On 24 October, a second provisional government of Azad Kashmir was established at Palandri under the leadership of Sardar Ibrahim Khan.
On 24 October, the Maharaja requested military assistance from India, which responded that it was unable to help him unless he acceded to India.
On 25 August, Pakistan declared a state of emergency because of the flooding.
On 26 August 2022, most villages in Ghizer district and Hunza were severely effected by the ongoing flooding displacing many people.
On 29 August 2009, the Gilgit-Baltistan Empowerment and Self-Governance Order 2009, was passed by the Pakistani cabinet and later signed by the then President of Pakistan Asif Ali Zardari.
On 4 October, an Azad Kashmir provisional government was declared in Lahore with Ghulam Nabi Gilkar as president under the assumed name "Mr. Anwar" and Sardar Ibrahim as the prime minister.
On May 18, 2007, a MOU for rail cooperation was signed by Pakistan and Iran under which the line will be completed by December 2008.
On average, a little over half of the entire annual flow is received within the three months from July to September, when monsoonal rains combine with meltwater.
On the other hand, water pollution generation is increasing largely due to the growing economy and population, and an almost complete lack of water treatment.
On the southern flanks of Nanga Parbat and in Upper and Lower Dir Districts, rainfall is much heavier than further north because moist winds from the Arabian Sea are able to penetrate the region.
Once they vanish, water supplies in Pakistan will be in peril.
One analyst estimated that the figure for Azad Kashmir was 25.1% in 2001.
One of such polo tournament is held in Shandur each year and polo teams of Gilgit with Chitral participates.
One of the early kings in Punjab was Porus, who fought the famous Battle of the Hydaspes against Alexander the Great.
One of the greatest contributors to air pollution is industrial activity.
One of the organisations active in the territory and inside Pakistan is YFK-International Kashmir Lobby Group, an NGO that seeks better India-Pakistan relations through conflict resolution in Kashmir.
One of the world's largest ship-breaking yards is located on the coast.
One of their kings Shimuddin Chamisar had submitted to Iltutmish, the Sultan of Delhi, and was allowed to continue on as a vassal.
One popular legend that highlights the strong Sufi presence in Sindh is that 125,000 Sufi saints and mystics are buried on Makli Hill near Thatta.
One to six participants can dance in pairs.
Only 40 Indus Valley sites have been discovered on the Indus and its tributaries.
Only July and August average more than 50 millimetres (1.97 in) of rainfall in the Karachi area; the remaining months are exceedingly dry with little rainfall.
Only July, August and September average more than 75 millimeters of rain in the Karachi area; the remaining months are rather dry.
Only six Bahai families are known to be living in Muzaffarabad with others living in rural areas.
Only some of these are under the conservation scope of International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).
Ora and Bazira (possibly Bazar) soon fell.
Other football grounds include Qayyum Papa Stadium and Sadiq Shaheed Stadium.
Other hot areas include Turbat and Dalbandin.
Other languages include Sindhi (3.81%), Saraiki (2.19%), Punjabi (0.59%), Urdu (0.53%) and others at (1.5%).
Other languages with significant numbers of speakers include Hindko (9.39%), Saraiki (3.17%) and Kohistani languages (2.45%).
Other major cities include Faisalabad, Rawalpindi, Gujranwala and Multan.
Other mammals in the Thar Desert include a subspecies of red fox (Vulpes vulpes pusilla) and the caracal, and a number of reptiles dwell there too.
Other members of the council are the president and the prime minister of Azad Kashmir (or an individual nominated by her/him) and 6 members of the AJK Legislative Assembly.
Other notable minority ethnic groups include Kohistanis in Kohistan and Kho as well as Kalashas in Chitral.
Other popular sports are football, cricket, volleyball (mostly play in winters) and other minor local sports.
Other prominent Muslims from Punjab who rose to nobility during the Mughal Era include Wazir Khan, Adina Beg Arain, and Shahbaz Khan Kamboh.
Other significant deep points are part of the Arabian Basin, which include a 5,358 metres (17,579 ft) deep point off the northern limit of Calrsberg Ridge.
Outside Quetta, the resource extraction infrastructure of the province is gradually developing but still lags far behind other parts of Pakistan.
Outside of winter, temperatures in central Khyber Pakhtunkhwa are not so hot as in Chitral.
Over the years factories on the banks of the Indus River have increased levels of water pollution in the river and the atmosphere around it.
Over the years, the number of cars on Pakistani roads has tripled[as of?].
Over time, the majority of the population in Sindh converted to Islam, especially in rural areas.
Overall 127 cities of the country, have a population of over 100,000.
P. cineraria wood is reported to contain high calorific value and provide high-quality fuel wood.
PML (N) members noted that Sarhad was a good name for the province but, if a change was needed, then it should be named Khyber or Abasin.
Pak-China Economic Corridor Secretariat was inaugurated in Islamabad on August 27, 2013.
Pakistan International Airlines also offers regular flights of a Boeing 737 between Skardu and Islamabad.
Pakistan International Airlines has regular flights to and from the other major cities of Pakistan including Islamabad, Gwadar, Karachi, Lahore and Peshawar.
Pakistan International Airlines used to fly a Fokker F27 Friendship daily between Gilgit Airport and Benazir Bhutto International Airport.
Pakistan Railways also operate special trains for various occasions.
Pakistan Railways carry 65 million passengers annually and daily operate 228 mail, express and passenger trains.
Pakistan Railways provides an important mode of transportation in Pakistan, catering to the large-scale movement of people and freight.
Pakistan constructed the Tarbela Dam near Rawalpindi – standing 2,743 metres (9,000 ft) long and 143 metres (470 ft) high, with an 80-kilometre (50 mi) long reservoir.
Pakistan contains a majority of the people living in the Indus Basin (around 61% of total) most of whom heavily depend on its rivers for their water needs.
Pakistan geologically overlaps both the Eurasian and Indian tectonic plates.
Pakistan had a 2018 Forest Landscape Integrity Index mean score of 7.42/10, ranking it 41st globally out of 172 countries.
Pakistan has celebrated Kashmir Solidarity Day on 5 February of each year since 1990 as a day of protest against India's sovereignty over its State of Jammu and Kashmir.
Pakistan has extensive energy resources, including fairly sizable natural gas reserves, petroleum oil reserves, coal fields and large hydropower potential.
Pakistan holds the dubious distinction of being the world's third-most polluted country when it comes to air quality, compounding its environmental challenges.
Pakistan inherited the territory comprising its current provinces from India following the Partition of India on 14 August 1947.
Pakistan is a party to several international agreements related to environment and climate.
Pakistan is bordered by Iran to the west, Afghanistan to the northwest , India to the east, and the Arabian sea to the south.
Pakistan is classified as a water stressed nation by the World Bank.
Pakistan is considering to develop wind turbines to fulfill the demand for electricity.
Pakistan is facing a significant challenge as its natural resources and ecosystems encounter increasing pollution and strain.
Pakistan is highly vulnerable to climate change.
Pakistan is home to many natural and man-made lakes and reservoirs.
Pakistan is one of the most seismically active countries in the world, being crossed by several major faults.
Pakistan is subject to frequent earthquakes which are often severe (especially in north and west) and severe flooding along the Indus after heavy rains (July and August).
Pakistan largest river is known as the Indus River which flows from Tibet/China and enters Pakistan through Gilgit Baltistan.
Pakistan lies in the temperate zone, immediately above the tropic of cancer.
Pakistan shares its borders with four neighboring countries—People's Republic of China, Afghanistan, India, and Iran—while Tajikistan is separated by the narrow Wakhan Corridor.
Pakistan's Billion Tree Tsunami restores 350,000 hectares of forests and degraded land to surpass its Bonn Challenge commitment.
Pakistan's largest city, Karachi, which is also the country's industrial center, is more humid than Islamabad but gets significantly lesser rainfall.
Pakistan's political agent, Khan Mohammad Alam Khan, arrived on 16 November and took over the administration of Gilgit.
Pakistan's rail network is also undergoing expansion in recent years.
Pakistani officials subsequently appointed Sardar Ibrahim as the president of the provisional government.
Palla fish (Tenualosa ilisha) of the river is a delicacy for people living along the river.
Pashto folk music is popular in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and has a rich tradition going back hundreds of years.
Pashto, of the Iranian subgroup and the majority language in the neighbouring province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, is spoken in two villages, both situated on the Line of Control.
Passenger earnings comprise 50% of the total revenue.
People from various parts of the world come to see the Pushkar ka Mela (Pushkar Fair) and oases.
People had no right to legal representation or appeal.
People in the Skardu district are mostly Shia, while Diamir and Astore districts have Sunni majorities.
Perhaps, Pakistan would never have imagined that its alliance with China would sink into huge debt.
Peshawar is the capital and largest city of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Pesticides used for pest control in agricultural operations can also contaminate surface as well as ground-water resources.
Phartho (hog deer) and wild bear occur, particularly in the central inundation belt.
Port of Salalah in Salalah, Oman is also a major port in the area.
Porus refused to surrender and wandered about atop an elephant, until he was wounded and his force routed.
Potable groundwater is also rare in the Thar Desert.
Potable water is mostly available only deep underground.
Potential scarcity of water not only threatens Pakistan's economy but also poses a serious threat to the lives of millions of Pakistanis.
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif said that a high-speed rail network will be built which will connect Peshawar to Karachi via all major cities of Pakistan during his visit to China in June 2016.
Princes Agha Abdul Karim Baloch and Muhammad Rahim refused to lay down arms, leading the Dosht-e Jhalawan in unconventional attacks on the army until 1950.
Private yellow and white minivans have services throughout cities in Pakistan and get commuters from one point of the city to the other at a low cost.
Prominent "antagonist groups" have mushroomed protesting the absence of civic rights and democracy.
Protection and conservation of the environment of Pakistan was included in the concurrent constitution of 1973.
Protests arose among the locals of the Hazara division due to this name change, as they began to demand their own province.
Punjab (/pʌnˈdʒɑːb/ pun-JAHB; Punjabi, Urdu: پنجاب, pronounced [pəɲˈd͡ʒaːb] ⓘ) is a province of Pakistan.
Punjab also contains part of the Thal and Cholistan deserts.
Punjab borders Jammu and Kashmir in the north, and the Indian states of Punjab and Rajasthan to the east.
Punjab emerged as an important agricultural region, especially following the Green Revolution during the mid-1960s to the mid-1970s, has been described as the "breadbasket of both India and Pakistan".
Punjab has the highest Human Development Index out of all of Pakistan's provinces at 0.550.
Punjab has the largest economy in Pakistan, contributing most to the national GDP.
Punjab has the lowest poverty rates in Pakistan, although a divide is present between the northern and southern parts of the province.
Punjab is Pakistan's most industrialised province, with the industrial sector comprising 24 per cent of the province's gross domestic product.
Punjab is Pakistan's second largest province by area after Balochistan with an area of 205,344 square kilometres (79,284 square miles).
Punjab is also one of the most urbanised regions of South Asia, with approximately 40 percent of its population being concentrated in urban areas.
Punjab is the most fertile province of the country as the Indus River and its four major tributaries Ravi, Jhelum, Chenab, and Sutlej flow through it.
Punjab's region temperature ranges from −2° to 45 °C, but can reach 50 °C (122 °F) in summer and can touch down to −10 °C in winter.
Punjab, the biggest province of Pakistan, has shown commitment to tackle challenges related to Climate Change under the Climate Change Activity Plan and Punjab Climate Change Strategy.
Punjabi Muslims form majority of the province.
Quetta Railway Station is one of the highest railway stations in Pakistan at 1,676 metres (5,499 feet) above sea level.
Quetta has a cold semi-arid climate (Köppen BSk) with a significant variation between summer and winter temperatures.
Quetta is at an average elevation of 1,680 metres (5,510 feet) above sea level, making it Pakistan's highest-altitude major city.
Quetta is on the western side of Pakistan and is connected to the rest of the country by a network of roads, railways and its international airport close to its centre.
Quetta is one of the most ethnically diverse cities in the country.
Quetta is the largest district of Balochistan by population with a total population of 2,275,699 at the 2017 census.
Quetta serves as the learning centre for the Balochistan province.
Quetta was formerly known as Shalkot (Pashto: ښالکوټ, Urdu: شالکوٹ).
Quetta[a] is the capital and largest city of the Pakistani province of Balochistan.
Rail services in Pakistan are provided by the state-run Pakistan Railways, under the supervision of the Ministry of Railways.
Railways and Airways were developed during the British Raj.
Rainfall is 100 to 500 mm (4 to 20 in) per year, almost all of it between June and September.
Rainfall varies from as little as less than 10 inches a year to over 150 inches a year, in various parts of the nation.
Ranjit Singh invaded Peshawar in 1818 and captured it from the Durrani Empire.
Rather than re-appointing Jehandad Khan of Khattak, Ranjit Singh selected Yar Muhammad Khan to once again rule the region.
Recent studies by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology confirmed that the Arabian Sea is warming monotonously; it possibly is due to global warming.
Recently Korangi has been upgraded to the status of the sixth district of Karachi.
Recently, the Radio Cab was introduced in Pakistan, which allows riders to call a toll-free number to get in touch with the closest taxi stand.
Recommendations from the National Conservation Strategy Report are incorporated in the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1993–98).
Religious tensions rose in Sindh over the Sukkur Manzilgah issue where Muslims and Hindus disputed over an abandoned mosque in proximity to an area sacred to Hindus.
Ride-hailing services such as Uber and Careem are also available.
Roughly in the middle of the Karakoram range is the Karakoram Pass, which was part of a now unused trade route between Ladakh and Yarkand.
Rudyard Kipling refers to the Karakoram mountain range in his novel Kim, which was first published in 1900.
Rulers of Gilgit formed an alliance with the Tang Chinese, and held back the Arabs with their help.
Same year the former State Subject law was abolished in Gilgit Baltistan, and Pakistanis from other areas could buy land and settle.
Sarang Khan was aided by the servants of Malik Mardan Bhatti, a former governor of Multan and the grandfather of Khizr Khan by adoption.
Sebuk Tigin, however, defeated him, and he was forced to pay an indemnity.
Security in Gilgit-Baltistan is provided by the Gilgit-Baltistan Police, the Gilgit Baltistan Scouts (a paramilitary force), and the Northern Light Infantry (part of the Pakistani Army).
Sediment clogging from poor maintenance of canals has affected agricultural production and vegetation on numerous occasions.
Seleucus was defeated and the lands of Aria, Arachosia, Gandhara, and Gedrosia were ceded to the Mauryans in exchange for a matrimonial alliance and 500 elephants.
Serene Air is the only other airline in Pakistan that owns wide-body aircraft with three Airbus A330s.
Services for Hyderabad and Faisalabad are now being set up.
Seven people were killed and 100 injured in protests on 11 April 2011.
Several cement plants and a marble factory are also located there.
Several large passes cut the ranges along the border with Afghanistan.
Several major development projects, including the construction of a new deep-sea port at the strategically important town of Gwadar, are in progress in Balochistan.
Several princely states within the boundaries of the region were allowed to maintain their autonomy under the terms of maintaining friendly ties with the British.
Shah Shujah was then himself proclaimed king in 1803, and recaptured Peshawar while Mahmud Shah was imprisoned at Bala Hissar fort until his eventual escape.
Shina, which like Kashmiri belongs to the broad Dardic group, is present in two distinct varieties spoken altogether in three villages.
Short films such as Green Election Campaign and Stop are a part of Clean Green Pakistan Effort.
Sial state was annexed by Sikh Empire and Ahmad Khan Sial was awarded a Jagir by Ranjit Singh.
Sial state was established by the 13 Sial Chief Nawab Walidad Khan Sial in 1723.
Sialkot District in the prosperous northern part of the province has a poverty rate of 5.63%, while Rajanpur District in the poorer south has a poverty rate of 60.05%.
Significant bathymetric surveys were also conducted by the Soviet Union during the 1960s.
Significant excavation has since been conducted at the site of the city, which was designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1980.
Significant features in the northern Arabian Sea include the Indus Fan, the second largest fan system in the world.
Significantly higher humidity when the monsoon is active means that heat discomfort can be greater.
Sikh Empire invaded Jhang multiple times from 1801 to 1816.
Similar ordinances are now being considered in other provinces of Pakistan.
Simultaneously, East Bengal was redesignated as East Pakistan, with Dacca serving as its provincial capital.
Since 1972, Balochistan's gross income has grown in size by 2.7 times.
Since 2000, however, the government has taken a comprehensive initiative to modernize the existing bus fleets and minimally impact the environment.
Since cold air from the Siberian High loses its chilling capacity upon crossing the vast Karakoram and Himalaya ranges, winters in central Khyber Pakhtunkhwa are somewhat milder than in Chitral.
Since the 1940s, dams, barrages and irrigation works have been constructed on the river.
Since the 1970s, the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) also enjoyed considerable support in the province due to its socialist agenda.
Since then, it has been generally known as the Line of Control or the (LoC).
Since then, with help from the Government of Pakistan and foreign aid, reconstruction of infrastructure is underway.
Sind'Bad Seamount, named after the fictional explorer Sinbad the Sailor, Zheng He Seamount, and the Mount Error Guyot are some notable sea mounts in western Arabian Sea.
Sindh and surrounding areas contain the ruins of the Indus Valley Civilization.
Sindh came to be at the forefront of the Khilafat Movement.
Sindh has numerous tourist sites with the most prominent being the ruins of Mohenjo-daro near the city of Larkana.
Sindh has the second highest Human Development Index out of all of Pakistan's provinces at 0.628.
Sindh is a fertile region and often called the "breadbasket" of the country; the damage and toll of the floods on the local agrarian economy is said to be extensive.
Sindh is a fertile region and often called the "breadbasket" of the country; the damage and toll of the floods on the local agrarian economy was said to be extensive.
Sindh is also the only province in Pakistan to have a separate law for governing Hindu marriages.
Sindh is bounded by the Thar Desert to the east, the Kirthar Mountains to the west and the Arabian Sea and Rann of Kutch to the south.
Sindh is home to a large portion of Pakistan's industrial sector and contains two of the country's busiest commercial seaports: Port Qasim and the Port of Karachi.
Sindh is in the western corner of South Asia, bordering the Iranian plateau in the west.
Sindh is prominent for its history during the Bronze Age under the Indus Valley civilization, and is home to two UNESCO-designated World Heritage Sites: the Makli Necropolis and Mohenjo-daro.
Sindh is sometimes referred to as the Bab-ul Islam (transl.
Sindh lies in a tropical to subtropical region; it is hot in the summer and mild to warm in winter.
Sindh's largest district by area is Tharparkar and by population its Karachi West with a population of 3,914,757 in the 2017 census.
Sindh, Punjab and Azad Jammu & Kashmir provinces lie on the north-western edge of the Indian plate in South Asia.
Sindh[c] is a province of Pakistan, located in the southeastern region of the country.
Sindhi Hindus differentiated between the local Sindhi Muslims and the migrant Muslims from India.
Sindhi Hindus were seen as representing the interests of Bombay instead of the majority of Sindhi Muslims.
Sindhi Hindus who left generally did so out of a fear of persecution, rather than persecution itself, because of the arrival of Muslim refugees from India.
Sindhi Hindus, for the most part, opposed the separation of Sindh from Bombay.
Sindhi Muslims eventually demanded the separation of Sindh from the Bombay Presidency, a move opposed by Sindhi Hindus.
Sindhi caps are manufactured commercially on a small scale at New Saeedabad and Hala New.
Sindhi people began celebrating Sindhi Topi Day on 6 December 2009, to preserve the historical culture of Sindh by wearing Ajrak and Sindhi topi.
Sindhi support for the Pakistan Movement arose from the desire of the Sindhi Muslim business class to drive out their Hindu competitors.
Snow fall also occurs there in December and January.
Snow remains very frequent at high altitudes but rarely lasts long on the ground in the major towns and agricultural valleys.
Snowfall also occurs there in December and January.
Socotra, also spelled Soqotra, is the largest island, being part of a small archipelago of four islands.
Solar power is now slowly flourishing but it is still installed on a small scale.
Some Islamic clerics and some politicians have attempted to ban the participation of non-Islamic festivals because of the religious basis, and they being declared haram (forbidden in Islam).
Some Kashmiri nationalist groups, such as the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front, claim Gilgit-Baltistan as part of a future independent state to match what existed in 1947.
Some geographers designate additional major regions.
Some manufacturing and high-tech investments in Peshawar have helped improve job prospects for many locals, while trade in the province involves nearly every product.
Some of them make use of helmet while others don't.
Some of them were adherents of Isma'ilism.
Some of these rivers flow only during the rainy season, so for part of the year the water may not reach the mouth of the river.
Some political experts claim that, in view of that pact, the only solution to the issue is mutual negotiation between the two countries without involving a third party such as the United Nation.
Some scholars believe that settlements of Gandhara grave culture of the early Indo-Aryans flourished in Gandhara from 1700 BC to 600 BC, when Mohenjo-daro and Harappa had already been abandoned.
Some unusual sightings of Asian cheetah occurred in 2003 near the Balochistan border in Kirthar Mountains.
Soon afterward, Sardar Ibrahim escaped to Pakistan and led the Poonch rebellion from there, with the assistance of Pakistan's prime minister Liaquat Ali Khan and other officials.
Sources state that it was no more than a compilation of various resolutions passed by the party.
Sparse deserts can be found in southern Punjab near the border with Rajasthan and the Sulaiman Range.
Special attention has been paid to the potential roles of environmental NGOs, women's organizations, and international NGOs in working with the government in its conservation efforts.
Specifically, studies have revealed the negative consequences air pollution can have on the welfare of those impacted.
Spring causes heavy rainfall in the northern parts while it is mild in most parts of Pakistan.
Spring starts in early March and ends in mid-May with average temperatures close to 15 °C (59 °F).
Still, after his Macedonians conquered the west bank—joining it to the Hellenic world, they elected to retreat along the southern course of the river, ending Alexander's Asian campaign.
Students and teachers from the National University of Science and Technology developed Pakistan's first ever hybrid gasoline car, the Devrim II, inspired by the Turkish model Devrim.
Studies have revealed how the constant fluctuation of particulate matter poses a major threat to Pakistan's citizens who are frequently exposes to harmful levels of air pollution.
Subsequently, a new division was added in Sindh, the Nawab Shah/Shaheed Benazirabad division.
Such a link would vastly shorten the 12,000-kilometre route that Mideast oil supplies must now take to reach Chinese ports.
Such controversies stirred up anti-Hindu sentiments amongst the province's Muslim population.
Such nutrients cause eutrophication in surface water.
Sufism continues to play an important role in the daily lives of Sindhis.
Suggestions for new names came and went.
Summer starts from late May and goes on until early September with average temperatures ranging from 24–26 °C (75–79 °F).
Summers are extremely dry in the north of Chitral district and receive only a little rain in the south around Drosh.
Summers are hot and dry, especially in the arid zones of Chagai and Kharan districts.
Summers are sweltering, boiling and extremely hot in central Balochistan, southern Punjab and Upper Sindh while it gets milder the more you go to the north and the coast.
Suspended Particulate Matter, which has been linked to respiratory illnesses has been found in harmful quantities in Pakistan's major urban areas.
Swat Motorway has been completed and operational up to Chakdarra.
Tarbela Dam in Pakistan is constructed on the Indus River, while the controversial Kalabagh dam is also being constructed on Indus River.
Taxila is considered to be the site of one of the oldest education centre of South Asia and was part of the Achaemenid province of Hindush.
Temperatures are rising four times faster than elsewhere in China, and the Tibetan glaciers are retreating at a higher speed than in any other part of the world...
That day is a national holiday in Pakistan.
The 15th century saw the rise of many prominent Muslims from Punjab.
The 1974 Interim Constitution Act was passed by the 48-member Azad Jammu and Kashmir unicameral assembly.
The 2005 census concerning Afghans in Pakistan showed that a total of 769,268 Afghan refugees were temporarily staying in Balochistan.
The 2011 Sindh floods began during the Pakistani monsoon season in mid-August 2011, resulting from heavy monsoon rains in Sindh, eastern Balochistan, and southern Punjab.
The 2011 Sindh floods began during the monsoon season in mid-August 2011, resulting from heavy monsoon rains in Sindh, Eastern Balochistan, and Southern Punjab.
The 2011 remeasurement suggested the source was a small lake northeast of Mount Kailash, rather than either of the two points previously used.
The 2023 Census enumerated a population of 14,894,402.
The 2023 Census of Pakistan indicated a population of 55.7 million.
The 3rd millennium BC saw the rise of Indus Valley Civilisation, a major urban civilization of the Bronze Age.
The 5,700-hectare Bhadla Solar Park, with a generation capacity of over 2 gigawatts, is located in the Thar Desert.
The 649-km-long Indira Gandhi Canal brings fresh water to the Thar Desert.
The ANP government eventually led the initiatives to repeal the major Islamist's social programs, with the backing of the federal government led by PPP in Islamabad.
The Achaemenids conquered the region and established the satrapy of Hindush.
The Afridis massacred a Mughal battalion in the Khyber Pass in 1672 and shut the pass to lucrative trade routes.
The Arabian Sea has been crossed by many important marine trade routes since the 3rd or 2nd millennium BCE.
The Arabian Sea has one of the world's three largest oceanic oxygen minimum zones (OMZ), or “dead zones,” along with the eastern tropical North Pacific and the eastern tropical South Pacific.
The Arabian Sea's OMZ has the lowest levels of oxygen in the world, especially in the Gulf of Oman.
The Assembly was established under Article 106 of the Constitution of Pakistan as having a total of 371 seats, with 66 seats reserved for women and eight reserved for non-Muslims.
The Awami National Party has been instrumental in fighting the Taliban.
The Awami National Party sought to rename the province "Pakhtunkhwa", which translates to "Land of Pakhtuns" in the Pashto language.
The Azad Jammu and Kashmir Council is a supreme body consisting of 14 members, 8 from the government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir and 6 from the government of Pakistan.
The Azadirachta indica (neem) (nim), Zizyphys vulgaris (bir) (ber), Tamarix orientalis (jujuba lai) and Capparis aphylla (kirir) are among the more common trees.
The Baloch, under the command of Ashkash, conquered this land, which Makran was a part of Balochistan.
The Billion Tree Tsunami was launched in 2014 by the government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) as a response against the challenge of global warming.
The Brahmin dynasty of Sindh succeeded the Rai dynasty.
The Brahuis retained the Dravidian language throughout many millennia.
The British and other historic empires have crossed the region to invade Afghanistan by this route.
The British had two objectives in their rule of Sindh: the consolidation of British rule and the use of Sindh as a market for British products and a source of revenue and raw materials.
The British incorporated Sindh, some years later after annexing it, into the Bombay Presidency.
The British supervised the construction of one of the most complex irrigation networks in the world.
The CPEC has put a debt burden on Pakistan, paving the way for China to use its "debt-trap diplomacy" and gain access to strategic assets.
The Central Asian traders originally applied the name to the Karakoram Pass.
The Chief Minister of Punjab (CM) is elected by the Provincial Assembly of the Punjab to serve as the head of the provincial government in Punjab, Pakistan.
The Chief Minister, the province's chief executive, is normally the leader of the largest political party or alliance of parties in the provincial assembly.
The Chief Secretary in turn, reports to the Chief Minister.
The China Trade Organization forum led the people of the area to actively invest and learn modern trade know-how from their Chinese neighbour, Xinjiang.
The Chinese emperor also granted the ruler of Cashmere, Chandrāpīḍa ("Tchen-fo-lo-pi-li"), the title of "King of Cashmere".
The Deosai Plains are located above the tree line and constitute the second-highest plateau in the world after Tibet, at 4,115 metres (13,501 ft).
The Deosai Plains cover an area of almost 5,000 square kilometres (1,900 mi2).
The Desert National Park in Jaisalmer district has a collection of 180-million-year-old animal and plant fossils.
The District Coordination Officer is the administrative head of the District Administration.
The English word Polo has Balti origin, that is spoken in same region, dates back to the 19th century which means ball.
The Freight Business Unit with 12,000 personnel operates over 200 freight stations on the railway network.
The Ghurids and Ghaznavids continued to rule parts of Sindh, across the eleventh and early twelfth century, alongside Soomras.
The Gilgit rebellion did not have civilian involvement and was solely the work of military leaders, not all of whom had been in favour of joining Pakistan, at least in the short term.
The Gilgit-Baltistan Police (GBP) is responsible for law enforcement in Gilgit-Baltistan.
The Government is making plans for this project.
The Government of Pakistan abolished State Subject Rule in Gilgit-Baltistan in 1974, allowing people from outside Gilgit Baltistan to buy land in the territory.
The Government of Punjab is a provincial government in the federal structure of Pakistan, is based in Lahore, the capital of the Punjab Province.
The Grand Trunk Road was a major road commissioned by Sher Shah Suri in the 16th century and used during the Suri and Mughal periods.
The Great Indian Bustard (Ardeotis nigriceps), one of the world’s heaviest flying birds, inhabits the Thar Desert of Rajasthan.
The Greeks who conquered Sindh in 325 BC under the command of Alexander the Great referred to the Indus River as Indós, hence the modern Indus.
The Gulf of Aden in the west connects the Arabian Sea to the Red Sea through the strait of Bab-el-Mandeb, and the Gulf of Oman is in the northwest, connecting it to the Persian Gulf.
The Habbari dynasty ruled much of Greater Sindh, as a semi-independent emirate from 854 to 1024.
The Hindu Sewa Dynasty ruled parts of Balochistan, chiefly Kalat.
The Hindu Shahis are believed to belong to the Uḍi/Oḍi tribe, namely the people of Oddiyana (modern Swat) in Gandhara, although they are also variously stated to be Brāhmāns or Kshātriyas.
The Hindu population in the province was approximately 49,133 (including the Scheduled Castes).
The Hindu rulers eventually exiled themselves to the Kashmir Siwalik Hills.
The Indian peafowl is a resident breeder in the Thar region.
The Indo-Gangetic Plain lies to the north, west and northeast of the Thar desert, the Rann of Kutch lies to its south, and the Aravali Range borders the desert to the east.
The Indo-Greek king Menander I (reigned 155–130 BCE) drove the Greco-Bactrians out of Gandhara and beyond the Hindu Kush, becoming king shortly after his victory.
The Indo-Parthian Kingdom was ruled by the Gondopharid dynasty, named after its first ruler Gondophares.
The Indo-Scythians were descended from the Sakas (Scythians) who migrated from Central Asia into South Asia from the middle of the 2nd century BCE to the 1st century BCE.
The Induan Age at the start of the Triassic Period of geological time is named for the Indus region.
The Indus (/ˈɪndəs/ IN-dəs) is a transboundary river of Asia and a trans-Himalayan river of South and Central Asia.
The Indus Basin Irrigation System is the "largest contiguous irrigation system developed over the past 140 years" anywhere in the world.
The Indus Basin consists of various topographical regions.
The Indus Basin is the part of Asia drained by the Indus River and its tributaries.
The Indus Basin is the second most water stressed basin of the world.
The Indus Basin lies in four countries: Pakistan, India, China, and Afghanistan.
The Indus River and its watershed have a rich biodiversity.
The Indus River basin has high diversity, being the home of more than 180 freshwater fish species, including 22 which are found nowhere else.
The Indus River basin is a large, fertile alluvial plain formed by silt from the Indus.
The Indus River came into the knowledge of the Western world early in the classical period, when King Darius of Persia sent his Greek subject Scylax of Caryanda to explore the river, c. 515 BC.
The Indus River dolphin (Platanista indicus minor) is found only in the Indus River.
The Indus River dolphin formerly also occurred in the tributaries of the Indus River.
The Indus River feeds the Indus submarine fan, which is the second largest sediment body on Earth.
The Indus River has a total drainage area of circa 1,120,000 km2 (430,000 mi2).
The Indus River is an antecedent river, meaning that it existed before the Himalayas and entrenched itself while they were rising.
The Indus River provides key water resources for Pakistan's economy – especially the breadbasket of Punjab province, which accounts for most of the nation's agricultural production.
The Indus River system is divided into two plains.
The Indus Valley Civilisation extended from across northeast Afghanistan to Pakistan and northwest India, with an upward reach from east of the Jhelum River to Ropar on the upper Sutlej.
The Indus Valley civilization (IVC) was a Bronze Age civilization (mature period 2600–1900 BC) which was centred mostly in the Sindh.
The Indus Valley regions are arid with poor vegetation.
The Indus Valley was later dominated by the Mauryan and Kushan Empires, Indo-Greek Kingdoms, Indo-Scythians and Hepthalites.
The Indus also supports many heavy industries and provides the main supply of potable water in Pakistan.
The Indus drainage supports some 237 million people.
The Indus has tributaries on both western and eastern side.
The Indus is one of the few rivers in the world to exhibit a tidal bore.
The Indus is second among a group of ten rivers responsible for about 90% of all the plastic that reaches the oceans.
The Indus is the most important supplier of water resources to the Punjab and Sindh plains – it forms the backbone of agriculture and food production in Pakistan.
The Indus river dolphin is among the most endangered species in Pakistan and is found in the part of the Indus river in northern Sindh.
The Indus script has a commonly used fish sign, which in its various forms may simply have meant "fish", or referred to stars or gods.
The Indus system is largely fed by the snow and glaciers of the Himalayas, Karakoram and the Hindu Kush ranges.
The Indus then flows northwest through Ladakh (Indian-administered Kashmir) and Baltistan and Gilgit (Pakistan-administered Kashmir), just south of the Karakoram range.
The Indus' eastern tributaries are the Jhelum, Chenab, Sutlej, Ravi and Beas.
The International Indian Ocean Expedition in 1959 was among the first to perform hydrographic surveys of the Arabian Sea.
The International Task Force often uses the port as a base.
The Islamic festivals are set according to the lunar Islamic calendar (Hijri), and the date falls earlier by 10 to 13 days from year to year.
The Islamic festivals are typically observed.
The Islamist government also attempted to enforce compulsory hijab on women, and wished to enforce gender segregation in the province's educational institutions.
The Jallianwala massacre fuelled the Indian independence movement.
The KNP supports Sindh ibex, wild sheep (urial) and black bear along with the rare leopard.
The Karakoram (English: /ˌkɑːrəˈkɔːrəm, ˌkær-/, Urdu: [kaːɾaːkoːɾəm]) is a mountain range in Asia located primarily in the Kashmir region.
The Karakoram Highway connects Islamabad to Gilgit and Skardu, which are the two major hubs for mountaineering expeditions in Gilgit-Baltistan.
The Karakoram contains four of the fourteen eight-thousanders, the highest of which is K2, the second highest mountain on Earth.
The Karakoram is in one of the world's most geologically active areas, at the plate boundary between the Indo-Australian plate and the Eurasian plate.
The Karakoram is the second-highest mountain range on Earth and part of a complex of ranges that includes the Pamir Mountains, Hindu Kush, and the Indian Himalayas.
The Karakoram mountain range has been referred to in a number of novels and movies.
The Katasraj temple in the city of Chakwal is a major destination for Hindu devotees.
The Khewra Salt Mines is one of the oldest mines in South Asia.
The Khunjerab Pass is the only motorable pass across the range.
The Kirthar National Park in the Kirthar range spreads over more than 3000 km2 of desert, stunted tree forests and a lake.
The Kotri Barrage near Hyderabad is 915 metres (3,000 ft) long and provides additional water supplies for Karachi.
The LPG (Liquefied Petroleum Gas) Air Mix Plant project by Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited was unveiled in 2020 with the goal of bringing the gas facility to Gilgit.
The Lal Suhanra National Park is a major zoological garden on the outskirts of the city.
The Lasbela district was the worst hit as the floods washed away four-fifths of the homes, crops, and livestock.
The Luni River is the only river in the desert.
The M-2 was the first motorway completed in 1998, linking the cities of Islamabad and Lahore.
The M-5 lead to the Sukkur District of Sindh.
The MMA, who until the elections of 2008 had a majority in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government, had proposed "Afghania" as a compromise name.
The Maqpons of Skardu unified Gilgit-Baltistan with Chitral and Ladakh, especially in the era of Ali Sher Khan Anchan who had friendly relations with the Mughal court.
The Monsoon season (late June-late September) also occurs in the summer season.
The Mughal Emperor Babur writes of encountering rhinoceroses along its bank in his memoirs (the Baburnama).
The Mughal Empire noted the importance of the region as a weak point in their empire's defences, and determined to hold Peshawar and Kabul at all cost against any threats from the Uzbek Shaybanids.
The Mughal Empire ruled the region until it was severely weakened in the eighteenth century.
The Mughals came to power in the early sixteenth century and gradually expanded to control all of Punjab.
The Multan Museum, Multan fort, DHA 360° zoo and Nuagaza tombs are significant attractions in the city.
The Muslim League declared the results as valid since over half of all eligible voters backed the merger with Pakistan.
The Muslim League's rise to becoming the party with the strongest support in Sindh was in large part linked to its winning over of the religious pir families.
The Muslims of the frontier ilaqas (Gilgit and the adjoining hill states) had wanted to join Pakistan.
The Muztagh Pass was crossed in 1887 by the expedition of Colonel Francis Younghusband, and the valleys above the Hunza River were explored by General Sir George K. Cockerill in 1892.
The NWFP chief minister, Sardar Mehtab Ahmed Khan, called for a referendum on the issue as a way of determining the name.
The National Highway Authority or NHA is responsible for the maintenance of all national highways in Pakistan.
The Noor Mahal, Sadiq Ghar Palace, and Darbar Mall were built during the reign of the Nawabs.
The Northern Areas has fifth of the world's seventeen highest peaks along with highest range of mountains the Karakoram and Himalayas.
The PML(N) has a limited support due to its centre-right agenda.
The Pakistani government has debated granting provincial status to Gilgit-Baltistan.Gilgit-Baltistan has been a member state of the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization since 2008.
The Pakistan–India ceasefire line runs from the Karakoram Pass west-southwest to a point about 130 kilometres northwest of Lahore.
The Pallo (Sable fish), a marine fish, ascends the Indus annually from February to April to spawn.
The Pamir Mountains are to the north, and the Hindu Kush lies to the west.
The Pashtun nationalist Awami National Party based in the province demanded that the province name be changed to "Pakhtunkhwa".
The Pashtuns mainly inhabit the north of Balochistan and form the majority in Quetta.
The Pharwala Fort, which was built by an ancient Hindu civilisation, is on the outskirts of the city.
The Pirrang (large tiger cat or fishing cat) of the eastern desert region is also disappearing.
The Port of Karachi, Pakistan's largest and busiest seaport lies on the coast of the sea.
The President of AJK is the constitutional head of state, while the Prime Minister, supported by a Council of Ministers, is the chief executive.
The Prince indulged in terrorist activities without any assistance from others.
The Provinces and administrative territories of Pakistan are subdivided into administrative "divisions", Divisional Commissioner is the administrative head of a division.
The Provincial Assembly is a unicameral legislature, which consists of 145 members elected to serve for a constitutionally bounded term of five years.
The Provincial Assembly of Sindh is a unicameral and consists of 168 seats, of which 5% are reserved for non-Muslims and 17% for women.
The Provincial Assembly of the Punjab is a unicameral legislature of elected representatives of the province of Punjab, which is located in Lahore in eastern Pakistan.
The Punjab bore the brunt of the civil unrest following partition, with casualties estimated to be in the millions.
The Punjab government decided in 2005 to replace two-stroke three-wheelers with CNG-fitted four-stroke rickshaws in Lahore, Multan, Faisalabad, Rawalpindi and Gujranwala.
The Punjab region was the site of one of the earliest cradle of civilisations, the Bronze Age Harrapan civilisation that flourished from about 3000 B.C.
The Punjab with its rich farmlands became one of the most important colonial assets.
The Rigveda describes several rivers, including one named "Sindhu".
The Rigvedic "Sindhu" is thought to be the present-day Indus River.
The Rigvedic hymns apply a feminine gender to all the rivers mentioned therein, except for the Brahmaputra.
The Salt Range in the Potwar Plateau has large deposits of rock salt.
The Samma civilization contributed significantly to the evolution of the Indo-Islamic architectural style.
The Sammas have left a mark on Sindh with magnificent structures in Thatta.
The Sammas overthrew the Soomras soon after 1335 and established the Sindh Sultanate.
The Shaksgam tract was ceded by Pakistan to China following the signing of the Sino-Pakistani Frontier Agreement in 1963.
The Sharmai Hydropower Project is a proposed power generation project located in the Upper Dir District of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa on the Panjkora River with an installed capacity of 150MW.
The Shimshal Pass (which does not cross an international border) is the only other pass still in regular use.
The Shri Hinglaj Mata mandir which is the largest Hindu pilgrimage centre in Pakistan is situated in Balochistan.
The Shri Ramapir Temple in Tandoallahyar whose annual festival is the second largest Hindu pilgrimage in Pakistan is in Sindh.
The Shyok, Shigar and Gilgit rivers carry glacial waters into the main river.
The Siachen Glacier (76 km (47 mi) long) and Biafo Glacier (63 km (39 mi) long) are the second- and third-longest glaciers outside the polar regions.
The Sibi Division, which was carved out of Quetta Division and Kalat Division in 1974, derives its name from Rani Sewi, the queen of the Sewa dynasty.
The Sikh Empire annexed the lower parts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region following advances from the armies of Hari Singh Nalwa.
The Sikh Empire ruled Punjab from 1799 until the British annexed it in 1849 following the First and Second Anglo-Sikh Wars.
The Sindh Environmental Protection Agency has ordered polluting factories around the river to shut down under the Pakistan Environmental Protection Act, 1997.
The Sindh Muslim League exploited the issue and agitated for the return of the mosque to Muslims.
The Sindhi phekari, red lynx or Caracal cat, is found in some areas.
The Sindhu Darshan Festival is held on every Guru Purnima on the banks of the Indus.
The Soomra dynasty was a local Sindhi Muslim dynasty that ruled between early 11th century and the 14th century.
The Soomras appear to have established themselves as a regional power in this power vacuum.
The Subah of Lahore was one of the three subahs (provinces) of the Mughal Empire in the Punjab region, alongside Multan and Delhi subahs, encompassing the northern, central and eastern Punjab.
The Sukkur Barrage serves over 20,000 km2 (7,700 sq mi).
The Sulaiman Mountains dominate the northeast corner and the Bolan Pass is a natural route into Afghanistan towards Kandahar.
The Sultanate included regions of southern and central Punjab and some areas of present-day Khyber.
The Talpurs succeeded the Kalhoras and four branches of the dynasty were established.
The Thar Desert in the province of Sindh is separated in the south from the salt flats of the Rann of Kachchh (Kutch) by a boundary that was first delineated in 1923–1924.
The Thar Desert is about 4.56% of the total geographical area of India.
The Thar Desert is the most widely populated desert in the world, with a population density of 83 people per km2.
The Thar is one of the most heavily populated desert areas in the world with the main occupations of its inhabitants being agriculture and animal husbandry.
The Thar people are the natives of the area.
The Thar region of Rajasthan is a major opium production and consumption area.
The Tibetan Plateau contains the world's third-largest store of ice.
The Turk Shahis ruled Gandhara until 870, when they were overthrown by the Hindu Shahis.
The Turkic Ghaznavids in the tenth century attacked the regions of Punjab.
The US State Department has set up three high-quality air quality monitoring stations at three locations in Pakistan.
The Upper Indus Plain starts from northern Pakistan and ends up at Mithankot.
The Wazirs and other tribes, taking advantage of instability on the frontier, continued to resist British occupation until 1920 – even after Afghanistan had signed a peace treaty with the British.
The Yangtze is the only river contributing more plastic.
The Yuezhi nomads had driven the Sakas from the highlands of Central Asia, and were themselves forced southwards by the nomadic Xiongnu.
The Zanskar River, which flows into the Indus in Ladakh, has a greater volume of water than the Indus itself before that point.
The Zila Nazim used to be the executive head of the District Administration until 2010 when the government gave their powers to the District Coordination Officers also.
The above information was calculated in 2009.
The administrative boss of the province who is in charge of the bureaucracy is the Chief Secretary Sindh, who is appointed by the Prime Minister of Pakistan.
The air is generally very dry; consequently, the daily and annual range of temperature is quite large.
The amendment's signing abolished the Federally Administered Tribal Areas as a separate political entity and merged them into the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
The ancient Greeks referred to the region as Pentapotamía (Greek: Πενταποταμία), of the same meaning as that of Punjab.
The ancient Iranians referred to everything east of the river Indus as hind.
The annual rainfall averages about seven inches, falling mainly during July and August.
The archipelago is a union territory and is governed by the Union Government of India.
The area fell subsequently under the rule of Ahmad Shah Durrani, founder of the Durrani Empire, following a grand nine-day long assembly of leaders, known as the loya jirga.
The area was declared as a national park in 1993.
The area's population, swelled by recently demobilised soldiers following World War II, rebelled against the maharaja's forces and gained control of almost the entire district.
The areas of Gilgit, Chitral and Hunza had already become independent of the Maqpons.
The basin contains the largest amount of perennial glacial ice outside of the polar regions.
The battle is thought to have resulted in a decisive Greek victory; however, A.
The bazaars in the province are renowned throughout Pakistan.
The biggest river flowing into the sea is the Indus River.
The cab drivers are reliable and will take passengers to any destination required.
The capital and largest city is Lahore which was the capital of the wider Punjab region since 17th century.
The capital city, Quetta, is located in a densely populated portion of the Sulaiman Mountains in the northeast of the province.
The capital of Sindhu-Sauvīra was named Roruka and Vītabhaya or Vītībhaya, and corresponds to the mediaeval Arohṛ and the modern-day Rohṛī.
The carvings were left by invaders, traders, and pilgrims who passed along the trade route, as well as by locals.
The catchment area of the Indus is estimated at almost 1 million square kilometres, and all of Pakistan's major rivers—the Kabul, Jhelum, and Chenab—flow into it.
The central government only controlling foreign affairs, defence and currency, while the MKA was sidelined.
The ceremonial head of the province is the Governor, who is appointed on the advice of the Chief Minister of Balochistan by the President of Pakistan.
The city is also near the ancient site of Uch Sharif which was once a Delhi Sultanate stronghold.
The city is known as the "Fruit Garden of Pakistan" due to its numerous fruit orchards and the wide variety of fresh and dried fruits produced in the region.
The city is near the Bolan Pass, which was on a major gateway from Central Asia to South Asia.
The city is the most populous and comprises more than one-eighth of the province's population.
The city of Bahawalpur is located near the Cholistan and Thar deserts.
The city of Multan became a centre of Islam.
The city of Sheikhupura also has a number of sites from the Mughal Empire, including the World Heritage-listed Rohtas Fort near Jhelum.
The city of Thatta is famous for its necropolis of erstwhile royals, the Makli Necropolis, which covers 10 square km on the Makli Hill.
The city saw a severe drought from 1999 to 2001 during which the city did not receive snowfall and below normal rains.
The city was conquered after a fierce battle.
The city's famous Mahabat Khan, built in 1630 in the Jeweller's Bazaar, was badly damaged and desecrated by the Sikhs, who also rebuilt the Bala Hissar fort during their occupation of Peshawar.
The climate in the capital city of Islamabad varies from an average daily low of 2 °C (35.6 °F) in January to an average daily high of 38 °C (100 °F) in June.
The climate in the capital city of Islamabad varies from an average daily low of 2 °C in January to an average daily high of 38 °C in June.
The climate of Gilgit-Baltistan varies from region to region, since the surrounding mountain ranges create sharp variations in weather.
The climate of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa varies immensely for a region of its size, encompassing most of the many climate types found in Pakistan.
The climate of the upper highlands is characterised by very cold winters and hot summers.
The climate varies from tropical to temperate.
The climatic changes and global warming are the most alarming issues risking millions of lives across the country.
The coalition further tried to prohibit male doctors from performing ultrasounds on women, and tried to close the province's cinemas.
The coastal settlements extended from Sutkagan Dor at the Pakistan-Iran border to Kutch in modern Gujarat, India.
The coastal strip and the creeks abound in semi-aquatic and aquatic plants and the inshore Indus delta islands have forests of Avicennia tomentosa (timmer) and Ceriops candolleana (chaunir) trees.
The connection between the Sindh and Islam was established by the initial Muslim invasions during the Rashidun Caliphate.
The construction of motorways began in the early 1990s, with the idea of building a world-class road network and reducing the load on the heavily used national highways throughout the country.
The contamination of fresh drinking water makes it harder for people to find clean water supplies and increases the prevalence of waterborne diseases.
The control of the region was left to the Tibetan Empire.
The country currently relies heavily on imported wood-based products due to a lack of self-sufficiency in this sector, resulting in substantial resource expenditure.
The culture in Punjab grew out of the settlements along the five rivers, which served as an important route to the Near East as early as the ancient Indus Valley civilisation, dating back to 3000 BCE.
The culture, folktales, art and music of Sindh form a mosaic of human history.
The current Chief Minister is Maryam Nawaz Sharif, who is also the first ever woman Chief Minister of any province in Pakistan.
The current name gained currency during the Mughal period.
The dams also generate electricity for heavy industries and urban centres.
The deepest known point is in the Arabian Sea limits at a depth of 5,395 metres (17,700 ft).
The deepest parts of the Arabian Sea are in the Alula-Fartak Trough on the western edge of the Arabian Sea off the Gulf of Aden.
The delta of this proto-Indus River has subsequently been found in the Katawaz Basin, on the Afghan-Pakistan border.
The densities and sizes of these green patches increase from west to east, following an increase in rainfall.
The descendants of those Dardic people can be still found today, and are believed to have maintained their Dardic culture and Shina language up to the present time.
The desert climate is characterised by hot and very arid conditions.
The desert has both a very dry part (the Marusthali region in the west) and a semidesert part (in the east) that has fewer sand dunes and slightly more precipitation.
The desert stretches to Punjab and Haryana in the north, to the Great Rann of Kutch along the coast, and to the alluvial plains of the Indus River in the west and northwest.
The development of Pakistan is viewed as a multigenerational enterprise.
The development of Sufism in Sindh was similar to the development of Sufism in other parts of the Muslim world.
The dialects of the Pahari-Pothwari (a Punjabic dialect in of itself) language complex cover most of the territory of Azad Kashmir.
The district of Sialkot excels in sports goods, surgical instruments and cutlery goods.
The districts are initially listed in alphabetical order, but they can be sorted in different ways by clicking the headers of the table.
The districts of Pakistan (Urdu: اِضلاعِ پاكِستان) are the third-level administrative divisions of Pakistan, below provinces and divisions, but forming the first-tier of local government.
The dividing line between a mountain with multiple peaks and separate mountains is not always clear (see Highest unclimbed mountain).
The drought has become a frequent phenomenon in the country.
The drought of 1998-2002 is considered the worst drought in 50 years.
The dry, hot weather is broken occasionally by dust storms and thunderstorms that temporarily lower the temperature.
The dwarf palm, Acacia rupestris (kher), and Tecomella undulata (lohirro) trees are typical of the western hill region.
The earliest date back to between 5000 and 1000 BCE, showing single animals, triangular men and hunting scenes in which the animals are larger than the hunters.
The eastern part has the moist zone of the western Himalayas, but going toward Karakoram and Hindu Kush, the climate gets considerably drier.
The eastern tip of the Wahan Corridor starts the Sino-Pak border between the People's Republic of China and Pakistan spanning about 559 km (347.3 mi).
The eastern wing consisted of East Bengal.
The economy is dominated by agriculture and the tourism industry.
The economy of Sindh is the largest in Pakistan and then comes the province of Punjab; its provincial capital Karachi is the most populous city in the country as well as its main financial hub.
The economy of the region is primarily based on a traditional trade route, the historic Silk Road.
The eighth division, Loralai Division, was created by bifurcating Zhob Division.
The endangered Kundal Shahi is native to the eponymous village and it is the only language not found outside Azad Kashmir.
The entire left bank of the Indus River in Sind province is protected from river flooding by constructing around 600 km long levees.
The environmental issues is a great problem for the nature and nation of Pakistan and has been disturbing the balance between economic development and environmental protection.
The epicentre of the earthquake was close to the city and destroyed most of the city's infrastructure, killing an estimated 40,000 people.
The extensive irrigation and dam projects provide the basis for Pakistan's large production of crops such as cotton, sugarcane and wheat.
The extensive linking of tributaries with the Indus has helped spread water resources to the valley of Peshawar, in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
The famous Khyber Pass links the province to Afghanistan, while the Kohalla Bridge in Circle Bakote Abbottabad is a major crossing point over the Jhelum River in the east.
The fastest way to travel was by air, but air travel was accessible only to a few privileged local people and to Pakistani military and civilian officials.
The fertility rate is 4.7 children per woman, which is the highest in Pakistan.
The figures for area and population are according to the statistics issued by the Planning and Development Department of the Government of Gilgit Baltistan.
The film won the Silver Lion at the Venice Film Festival of 1937.
The final phase would link 5 ft 6 in (1,676 mm) with Central Asian 1,520 mm (4 ft 11+27⁄32 in) Russian gauge.
The first European visited Quetta in 1828, describing it as mud-walled fort surrounded by three hundred mud houses.
The first Indo-Scythian king Maues established Saka hegemony by conquering Indo-Greek territories.
The first West Eurasian empire to annex the Indus Valley was the Persian Empire, during the reign of Darius the Great.
The first head office has been built in Gilgit City.
The first king Kallar had moved the capital into Udabandhapura from Kabul, in the modern village of Hund for its new capital.
The first phase will stretch from the Chaman to Spin Boldak in Afghanistan.
The first railways in Pakistan were built from 1885.
The flood affected more than 20 million people exceeding the combined total of individuals affected by the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, the 2005 Kashmir earthquake and the 2010 Haiti earthquake.
The flood is considered as worst in Pakistan's history affecting people of all four provinces and Gilgit–Baltistan and Azad Kashmir region of Pakistan.
The flooding followed the previous year's floods, which devastated a large part of the country.
The flooding has been described as the worst since the 2010 Pakistan floods, which devastated the entire country.
The floods caused considerable damage; an estimated 434 civilians were killed, with 5.3 million people and 1,524,773 homes affected.
The floods have caused considerable damage; an estimated 270 civilians have been killed, with 5.3 million people and 1.2 million homes affected.
The floods killed around 500,000 of Balochistan's livestock and damaged cultivation and agricultural output in 32 out of 35 districts of the province.
The flow of the river is also determined by the seasons – it diminishes greatly in the winter while flooding its banks in the monsoon months from July to September.
The following is a list of floods in Pakistan.
The following is a list of undergraduate medical institutions recognised by Pakistan Medical and Dental Council (PMDC) as of 2013[update].
The following year, the party workers assembled at the house of Sardar Ibrahim on 19 July 1947, reversed the decision, demanding that the Maharaja accede to Pakistan.
The foothills of the Himalayas are found in the extreme north as well, and feature a much cooler and wetter climate, with snowfall common at higher altitudes.
The foremost among these is Pahari–Pothwari (a dialect of Punjabi) with its various dialects.
The freight rate structure is based on market trends in road transport, which is the main competitor to rail transport.
The government of India initiated departmental exploration for oil in 1955 and 1956 in the Jaisalmer area, Oil India Limited discovered natural gas in 1988 in the Jaisalmer basin.
The group, the Pak-Wheelers, had succeeded in 2011 in developing a car with a fuel efficiency of 450 kilometres per liter, but were trying to improve it to more than 700 by using hybrid technology.
The hardest part of the summer is then over, but cooler weather does not come until late October.
The head of the Tehsil government is "Tehsil Nazim" who is assisted by the tehsil Naib-Nazim.
The highest lakes in Pakistan are the Paristan Lake and the two Shimshal Lakes, all three of which are at an altitude of over 4,755 metres (15,600 ft).
The highest number of flyovers and under passes are located in Karachi, followed by Lahore.
The highest peak in the range is the limestone Sheikh Badin Mountain, which is protected by the Sheikh Badin National Park.
The highest rainfall of 620 millimetres (24 in) was recorded in Islamabad during 24 hours on 24 July 2001.
The highest temperature in Quetta is 42 °C (108 °F) which was recorded on 10 July 1998.
The history of transport in modern-day Pakistan dates back to the Indus Valley civilization.
The idea of Pashtunistan never helped Pashtuns and it only caused suffering for them.
The idea of the initiative was to hold a competition between cities of Pakistan in cleanliness and greenery.
The improved connectivity facilitated the local population to avail itself of educational opportunities in the rest of Pakistan.
The inadequate air emission treatments and lack of regulatory control over industrial activity has contributed to the deterioration of ambient air quality in major cities.
The islands form the smallest union territory of India with their total surface area being just 32 km2 (12 sq mi).
The journey from Rawalpindi / Islamabad to Gilgit takes approximately 20 to 24 hours.
The judicial branch of government is carried out by the Balochistan High Court, which is based in Quetta and headed by a Chief Justice.
The kingdom’s economy, which had long depended on levies on caravans, declined after Bombay became a major port and sea trade largely replaced traditional land routes.
The lack of support for a name change by the PML (N) was defended as opposition to the nationalistic politics being pursued by the ANP.
The lake is spread over an area of over 260 square kilometres (100 square miles).
The land was also the source of other livelihood necessities such as wood, fuel, grazing for animals which then turned into dairy products.
The landscape is amongst the most heavily irrigated on earth and canals can be found throughout the province.
The large delta has been recognized by conservationists as an important ecological region.
The largest desert is the Kharan Desert which occupies the most of Kharan District.
The largest ethnic group are the Pashtuns, who have been living in the region for centuries.
The largest islands in the Arabian Sea include Socotra (Yemen), Masirah Island (Oman), Lakshadweep (India) and Astola Island (Pakistan).
The largest lake in Pakistan, and also one of the largest in South Asia, is the Manchar Lake.
The largest non-Muslim minority is Christians with 2,458,924 adherents, forming roughly 1.93 percent of the population.
The largest portion of the basin, at 47%, lies in Pakistan while India contains the second biggest share at 39%.
The last Maqpon Raja, Ahmed Shah, ruled all of Baltistan between 1811 and 1840.
The last Soomra ruler took shelter with the governor of Gujarat, under the protection of Muhammad bin Tughluq, the sultan of Delhi.
The length used in this article is 3,180 km (1,980 mi), taken from the Himalayan Climate and Water Atlas (2015).
The leopard is now rare and the Asiatic cheetah extinct.
The list is an incomplete list of mountains in Pakistan.
The list of highest mountains ranks the highest 100 summits with at least 500 m prominence, approximating a 7% relative prominence.
The literacy rate has increased greatly over the last 40 years (see the table below).
The literacy rate in Azad Kashmir was 62% in 2004, higher than in any other region of Pakistan.
The literacy rate of Azad Kashmir was 76.60% in 2018.
The literacy rate of Gilgit-Baltistan is approximately 72%.
The literacy rate of the province in 2017 was 43.6%, an increase from 24.8% in 1998.
The local Rai dynasty emerged from Sindh and reigned for a period of 144 years, concurrent with the Huna invasions of North India.
The locations of the highest mountains are shown on the composite satellite image of Karakoram and Hindu Kush below.
The longest and the largest river in Pakistan is the Indus River.
The lopped branches are good as fencing material.
The lower course of the river ends in a large delta in the Sindh province of Pakistan.
The lower reaches are far more arid than those in the north, and they branch into ranges that run generally to the southwest across the province Balochistan.
The lowermost part of the river and its delta are home to freshwater fish, but also several brackish and marine species.
The lowest temperature in Quetta is −18.3 °C (−0.9 °F) which was recorded on 8 January 1970.
The maharaja's administration is said to have started levying punitive taxes on the peasantry which provoked a local revolt and the administration resorted to brutal suppression.
The maharaja's crumbling forces were unable to withstand the onslaught.
The main instruments are the rubab, mangey and harmonium.
The main occupations of the inhabitants are agriculture and animal husbandry.
The main purpose of this area was to protect the wildlife of Cholistan Desert.
The main ranges are the Karakoram and the western Himalayas.
The main source of this pollution is the traffic noise caused by buses, cars, trucks, rickshaws and water tankers.
The main tourism activities are trekking and mountaineering, and this industry has been growing in importance throughout the region.
The major cities of the Indus Valley Civilisation, such as Harappa and Mohenjo-daro, date back to around 3300 BC, and represent some of the largest human habitations of the ancient world.
The major football ground is Ayub National Stadium, a multipurpose stadium also used for athletics.
The major native language spoken in Punjab is Punjabi, representing the largest language spoken in the country.
The major reasons of these environmental issues are carbon emissions, population explosion, and deforestation.
The majority of the highest peaks are in the Gilgit–Baltistan region administered by Pakistan.
The majority of the population, however, are native speakers of other languages.
The migrating Indo-Aryan tribes gave rise to the Iron Age Vedic civilisation, which lasted till 500 BC.
The migration to the UK was accelerated and by the completion of Mangla Dam in 1967 the process of 'chain migration' became in full flow.
The mission of the force is the prevention and detection of crime, maintenance of law and order and enforcement of the Constitution of Pakistan.
The modern Encyclopedia Britannica was originally published in 1999 with the shorter measurement, but was updated in 2015 to use the longer measurement.
The modern name in Urdu is Sindh (Urdu: سندھ) or Daryā-i-Sindh (Urdu: دریائے سندھ, lit.
The monsoon and the Western Disturbance are the two main factors which alter the weather over Pakistan; Continental air prevails for the rest of the year.
The monsoon, although short, is generally powerful.
The most common sources of excess nutrients in surface water from nonpoint sources are chemical fertilizers and manure from animal facilities.
The most favourite aircraft in Pakistan is the Airbus A320 family with only Serene air having 4 Boeing 737s instead of the Airbuses.
The name "Balochistan" means "the land of the Baloch people".
The name Afghania was proposed first by the founding leaders of the Muslim League in 1933 and was at least partly chosen to represent the first "a" in "Pakistan".
The name Gandhāra was proposed by Pakistan Muslim League (N), as a neutral name for the province.
The name Karakoram was used in the early 20th century, for example by Kenneth Mason, for the range now known as the Baltoro Muztagh.
The name Pakhtunkhwa was approved by the democratically elected constitutional assembly of the province in 1997 by majority vote.
The name Pakhtunkhwa was mentioned for the first time in the United Nation's General Assembly by Pakistani President Asif Zardari on 26 September 2008.
The name Quetta is a variation of the Pashto word Kwatkōṭ, or kōta meaning "fortress".
The name change of the province was met with strong opposition from the people of Hazara region and protests erupted in the region with wheel and shutter jam strikes.
The naming and division of the various subranges of the Karakoram is not universally agreed upon.
The natural vegetation of this dry area is classified as northwestern thorn scrub forest (i.e.
The negotiations were widely considered to be insufficiently transparent.
The next sultan, Firuz Shah Tughlaq attacked Sindh in 1365 and 1367, unsuccessfully, but with reinforcements from Delhi he later obtained Banbhiniyo's surrender.
The northeastern part of the Thar Desert lies between the Aravalli Hills.
The northern highlands include parts of the Hindu Kush, the Karakoram Range, and the Himalayas.
The northern part of Azad Jammu and Kashmir encompasses the lower area of the Himalayas, including Jamgarh Peak (4,734 m or 15,531 ft).
The northern sections of the Carlsberg Ridge flank the southern edge of the Arabian Basin.
The northern zone is cold and snowy in winters with heavy rainfall and pleasant summers with the exception of the Peshawar basin, which is hot in summer and cold in winter.
The numbers refer to the global ranking in this "List of highest mountains".
The official language of Azad Kashmir is Urdu,[note 3] while English is used in higher domains.
The oldest national park is Lal Suhanra in Bahawalpur District, established in 1972.
The onset and duration of these seasons vary greatly according to location.
The onset and duration of these seasons vary somewhat according to location.
The onset of the southwest monsoon is anticipated to reach Punjab by May, but since the early 1970s, the weather pattern has been irregular.
The order granted self-rule to the people of Gilgit-Baltistan, by creating, among other things, an elected Gilgit-Baltistan Legislative Assembly and Gilgit-Baltistan Council.
The other minorities include Sikhs and Parsis.
The other side is religious issues and terrorism.
The overall population growth rate between 1998 and 2011 was 63.1% making it 4.85% annually.
The part of the economy that Khyber Pakhtunkhwa dominates is forestry, where its share has historically ranged from a low of 34.9% to a high of 81%, giving an average of 61.56%.
The peacock is designated as the national bird of India and the provincial bird of the Punjab (Pakistan).
The peak marked as number 9 is Nanga Parbat (8,125 m), which is the 2nd highest Himalayan peak in Pakistan.
The people of Bazira fled to the rock Aornos, but Alexander made Embolima (possibly Amb) his base, and attacked the rock from there, which was captured after a desperate resistance.
The people of Gilgit-Baltistan have opposed integration with Azad Kashmir.
The people of Gilgit-Baltistan were deprived of rights enjoyed by citizens of Pakistan and Azad Kashmir.
The people of this region culturally differ from the Kashmiris living in the Kashmir Valley of Jammu and Kashmir and are closer to the culture of Pir Panjal Region.
The persistence of water scarcity heavily influences life in all areas of the Thar, prompting many inhabitants to adopt a nomadic lifestyle.
The pirs generated huge support for the Khilafat cause in Sindh.
The plains are also very hot in summer, with temperatures reaching 50 °C (122 °F).
The plateau lies east of Astore, south of Skardu and west of Ladakh.
The polling began on 6 July 1947 and the referendum results were made public on 20 July 1947.
The population constituted 6.85% of Pakistan's total population.
The population density is very low due to the mountainous terrain and scarcity of water.
The population in Gilgit perceived itself as ethnically different from Kashmiris and disliked being ruled by the Kashmir state.
The population of Azad Kashmir is almost entirely Muslim.
The population of Azad Kashmir, according to the preliminary results of the 2017 Census, is 4.045 million.
The population of Gilgit-Baltistan consists of many diverse linguistic, ethnic, and religious sects, due in part to the many isolated valleys separated by some of the world's highest mountains.
The population of Gilgit-Baltistan is entirely Muslim and is denominationally the most diverse in the country.
The population of Gilgit-Baltistan was estimated to be 1,713,778 in 2022 by the Government of Gilgit Baltistan.
The population of fish in the river is moderately high, with Sukkur, Thatta, and Kotri being the major fishing centres – all in the lower Sindh course.
The populations in Gilgit, Hunza and Nagar districts are composed of a mix of all of these sects.
The port handled just under 3.5m teu in 2009.
The port is located on the eastern bay of a natural hammerhead-shaped peninsula jutting out into the Arabian Sea from the coastline.
The port is projected to be the hub of an energy and trade corridor to and from China, the Middle East, and the Central Asian republics.
The portion in Pakistan extends into the provinces of Sindh and Punjab (the portion in the latter province is referred to as the Cholistan Desert).
The power of the Saka rulers declined after the defeat to Chandragupta II of the Gupta Empire in the 4th century.
The precise delineations are not yet known but Sommrus were probably centered in lower Sindh.
The previous Perso-Arabic spelling Sind (سند) was discontinued in 1988 by an amendment passed in the Sindh Assembly.
The principal administrative centers are the towns of Gilgit and Skardu.
The pro-independence Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front has never been allowed to contest elections in Azad Kashmir.
The produce included various crops, fruits, vegetables, etc.
The project aims to increase the availability of air quality data in Pakistan and make citizens more aware of the health impacts of air pollution.
The project received a major boost when control of Gwadar was transferred to China's state-owned China Overseas Ports Holding in February 2013.
The project was completed in August 2017, ahead of schedule.
The proposed line will also be connected the port town of Gwadar via Dalbadin and Taftan, thus connecting the port town to Central Asia.
The province accounts for at least 78% of the marble production in Pakistan.
The province ceased to exist after the death of its last viceroy, Adina Beg in 1758, with large parts being incorporated into Durrani Empire.
The province forms the bulk of the transnational Punjab region, partitioned in 1947 between Pakistan and India.
The province has a number of large cosmopolitan cities, including the provincial capital Lahore.
The province has had various names throughout history.
The province includes a number of important historical sites.
The province is bordered by Afghanistan to the north and northwest, Iran to the south-west, Punjab and Sindh, and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the Federally Administered Tribal Areas to the northeast.
The province is home to 16.9 percent of Pakistan's total population.
The province is home to over half the population of Pakistan, and is the world's second-most populous subnational entity, and the most populous outside of India and China.
The province is mostly arid with scant vegetation except for the irrigated Indus Valley.
The province is well known for its distinct culture, which is strongly influenced by Sufism, an important marker of Sindhi identity for both Hindus and Muslims.
The province stretching southwards from the Baroghil Pass in the Hindu Kush covers almost six degrees of latitude; it is mainly a mountainous region.
The province's economy has quadrupled since 1972.
The province's renewable and human resource potential has not been systematically measured or exploited.
The province's trend towards the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) and away from the Pakistan Muslim League (N) can be seen in nationwide general elections, in which Sindh is a stronghold of the PPP.
The provincial cabinet is then appointed by the Chief Minister who takes the Oath of office from the Governor.
The provincial capital of Sindh is Karachi.
The provisional government faded away after this encounter with Alam Khan, clearly reflecting the flimsy and opportunistic nature of its basis and support.
The provisional government lasted 16 days.
The railway network comprises11,492 km all of which is 5 ft 6 in (1,676 mm) gauge, including 286 km of electrified track.
The railway track was laid in the 1890s during the British era to link Quetta with rest of the country.
The rain continued for the next two months, devastating large areas of Pakistan.
The range is about 500 km (311 mi) in length and is the most glaciated place on Earth outside the polar regions.
The range spans the borders of Pakistan, China, and India,[a] with the north-western extremities of the range extending into Afghanistan and Tajikistan.
The ranges are listed roughly west to east.
The ranks in the peaks above 7,000 metres (23,000 ft) are derived from the list of highest mountains.
The rare Houbara bustard finds Sindh's warm climate suitable to rest and mate.
The record-breaking rain fell in just 10 hours.
The refined, lightweight, colourful, washable fabrics from Hala became a luxury for people used to the woollens and linens of the age.
The region came under rule during the reign of King Kay Khosrow of the Kayanian dynasty of Iran.
The region is also the only Shia-plurality area in an otherwise Sunni-dominant Pakistan.
The region is home to some of the world's highest mountain ranges.
The region receives rainfall in both the winter and the summer.
The region remained with the princely state, with temporary leases of some areas assigned to the British, until 1 November 1947.
The region surrounding Quetta is highly prone to earthquakes.
The region was a major centre for Greco-Buddhism under the Indo-Greeks and Gandharan Buddhism under later dynasties, including Indo-Scythians, Indo-Parthians and Kushans.
The region was then contested by Chinese and Tibetan forces, and their respective vassal states, until the mid-700s.
The region was then divided between the Maurya Empire and the Greco-Bactrian kingdom in 302 B.C.E.
The region's scarcity of rainfall is compensated by the inundation of the Indus twice a year, caused by the spring and summer melting of Himalayan snow and by rainfall in the monsoon season.
The region, together with Azad Kashmir in the southwest, is grouped and referred to by the United Nations and other international organisations as "Pakistan-administered Kashmir".
The remainder of Sindh consists of an agriculture-based economy and produces fruits, consumer items and vegetables for other parts of the country.
The remainder of its route to the sea is in the plains of the Punjab and Sindh, where the flow of the river becomes slow and highly braided.
The remainder of the year has significantly less rain, amounting to about 100 millimetres (3.94 in) per month.
The remainder of the year has significantly less rain, amounting to about fifty millimeters per month.
The remaining 4% live mostly in Afghanistan, representing a little less than a quarter of the country's population.
The remaining 42% is earned from domestic traffic.
The remaining 48 airports have unpaved runways including one airport with a runway longer than 3,047 meters.
The remnants of the earliest people in Balochistan were the Brahui people, a Dravidian-speaking people.
The renaming issue was an emotional one which often crossed party lines and not all supporters of a renaming agreed on the name Pakhtunkhwa.
The report also stated that the increase in industrialization, urbanization and motorization will inevitably worsen this problem.
The rest of the economy is shouldered by mainly agriculture and tourism.
The rich culture, art and architectural landscape of Sindh have fascinated historians.
The right bank side is also leveed from Guddu barrage to Lake Manchar.
The rivalry was passed down to Mahan Singh and Ghulam Muhammad Chattha.
The river is especially critical since rainfall is meagre in the lower Indus valley.
The rock carvings found in various places in Gilgit-Baltistan, especially in the Passu village of Hunza, suggest a human presence since 2000 BC.
The salt comes from the weathering of rocks in the region.
The same form of band music is played in the neighbouring Northern Areas.
The sand is highly mobile due to the strong winds that rise each year before the onset of the monsoon.
The seasonality of rainfall in central Khyber Pakhtunkhwa shows very marked gradients from east to west.
The second phase will extend line to Kandahar and the third phase will eventually connect to Herat.
The secular Pashtun leadership was also of the view that if joining India was not an option then they should espouse the cause of an independent ethnic Pashtun state rather than Pakistan.
The secular stance of Bacha Khan had driven a wedge between the ulama of the otherwise pro-Congress (and pro-Indian unity) Jamiat Ulema Hind (JUH) and Bacha Khan's Khudai Khidmatgars.
The sediment produced by erosion can damage fish habitat and wetlands, and often transports excess agricultural chemicals resulting in contaminated runoff.
The separation of Sindh from Bombay Presidency triggered Sindhi Muslim nationalists to support the Pakistan Movement.
The signing of the Instrument of Accession by Ahmad Yar Khan led his brother, Prince Abdul Karim, to revolt against his brother's decision due to their family rift in July 1948.
The site is currently threatened by erosion and improper restoration.
The small city of Quetta was almost completely destroyed, and the adjacent military cantonment was heavily damaged.
The smallest national park is the Ayubia, covering a total approximate area of 3,312 hectares (8,184.1 acres).
The smooth-coated otters in the Indus River represent a subspecies found nowhere else, the Sindh otter (Lutrogale perspicillata sindica).
The soil of the Thar Desert remains dry for much of the year, so it is prone to wind erosion.
The southern borders are far less contentious than those in northern Pakistan (Kashmir).
The southern boundary of the Karakoram is formed west to east by the Gilgit, Indus, and Shyok rivers, which separate the range from the north-western end of the Himalaya.
The southern district of Dera Ismail Khan has a Saraiki majority.
The southern limits are dominated by the Arabian Basin, a deep basin reaching depths over 4,200 metres (13,780 ft).
The southern parts of Azad Kashmir including Bhimber, Mirpur and Kotli districts has extremely hot weather in summers and moderate cold weather in winters.
The southern zone is arid with hot summers and relatively cold winters and scanty rainfall.
The southwest monsoon wind begins in mid-February and continues until the end of September, whereas the cool northerly wind blows during the winter months from October to January.
The spring monsoon has either skipped over the area or has caused it to rain so hard that floods have resulted.
The state is administratively divided into three divisions which, in turn, are divided into ten districts.
The survey terms it as the worst drought in the history of the country.
The swift pace of urbanization, coupled with population growth, presents further intricacies in this regard.
The table below shows a break-up of Gilgit-Baltistan first-language speakers.
The tehsils are used all over Pakistan except Sindh province where the word "taluka" is used instead, although the functions and authorities are the same.
The term is now used to refer to the entire range from the Batura Muztagh above Hunza in the west to the Saser Muztagh in the bend of the Shyok River in the east.
The territory has a parliamentary form of government modelled after the British Westminster system, with the city of Muzaffarabad serving as its capital.
The territory may have corresponded to the area covering the lower and central Indus basin (present day Sindh and the southern Punjab regions of Pakistan).
The territory of present-day Gilgit-Baltistan became a separate administrative unit in 1970 under the name "Northern Areas".
The territory of present-day Gilgit-Baltistan became a separate administrative unit in 1972 under the name "Federally Administered Northern Areas".
The thermal equator passes through upper Sindh, where the air is generally very dry.
The total length of the river varies in different sources.
The traditional source of the river is the Sênggê Kanbab (Sênggê Zangbo) or "Lion's Mouth", a perennial spring not far from the sacred Mount Kailash, marked by a long low line of Tibetan chortens.
The tribe of Kalasha in southern Chitral still retain an ancient form of Polytheism mixed with Animism, a faith once dominant in the mountainous upper northeast of the district.
The tribesmen captured the towns of Muzaffarabad and Baramulla, the latter of which is 32 kilometres (20 mi) northwest of the state capital Srinagar.
The tunes of Khowar music are very different from those of Pashto, and the main instrument is the Chitrali sitar.
The ultimate source of the Indus is in Tibet, but there is some debate about the exact source.
The undivided Punjab region was home to six rivers, of which five flow through Pakistan's Punjab province.
The unicameral Azad Kashmir Legislative Assembly elects both the Prime Minister and President.
The unicameral Provincial Assembly of Balochistan comprises 65 seats, of which 11 are reserved for women, and 3 are reserved for non-Muslims.
The village of Deosai lies close to Chilum chokki and is connected with the Kargil district of Ladakh through an all-weather road.
The village of Punjwarian is one of the villages close to the border of Indo-Pakistan.
The water from these reservoirs as well as from various barrages are diverted to irrigate 26 million hectares (mha) of agricultural land, 16 mha in Pakistan and 10 mha in India.
The waterway network in Pakistan is in its infancy, with Karachi being the only major city situated next to the Arabian Sea.
The website of the AJK government reports the literacy rate to be 74%, with the enrolment rate in primary school being 98% and 90% for boys and girls respectively.
The western wing consisted of a merger of the North-West Frontier Province, West Punjab, Sind Province, and Baluchistan CCP.
The whole project is estimated to cost US$76 million.
The wildlife of the Arabian sea is diverse, and entirely unique because of the geographic distribution.
The winters are generally cold even in the valleys, and heavy snow during the winter blocks passes and isolates the region.
The word "Act" was also deleted from the Constitution.
The word "India" is derived from the Indus River.
The word Sind is a Persian derivative of the Sanskrit term Sindhu, meaning "river," a reference to vast Indus River.
Their culture has been strongly influenced by Islamic culture and Sufism, with a number of Sufi shrines spread across the province.
Their dates are still a matter of dispute, but it is beyond question that they reigned early in the Christian era.
Their logic behind that demand was that Punjabi people, Sindhi people and Baloch people have their provinces named after their ethnicities but that is not the case for Pashtun people.
Their role is similar to district governor or prefect, with responsibility for implementing government strategy and developing initiatives arising out of it.
Then there are 2 low-cost carriers with both having 5 Airbus A320s in their fleet: fly Jinnah and Air Sial.
Then, with the assistance of the Chinese government, Pakistan began construction of the Karakoram Highway (KKH), which was completed in 1978.
There are 48 departments in Punjab government.
There are 91 airports with paved runways, of which 14 have runways longer than 3,047 meters.
There are about 37 national parks in Pakistan, 8 out of these are in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
There are also companies such as Bykea that offer ride-hailing services with bikes or motorcycles in Karachi, Lahore, Rawalpindi, Peshawar and others.
There are also graphite deposits at Mohriwali.
There are also hopes the route will eventually provide a link to Europe and Central Asia, and carry passengers.
There are also motorcycling operators in the cities.
There are also numerous privately run services that use cars and minibuses of various types throughout Pakistan, providing a reliable and quick means of transport.
There are also occasional sightings of The Sindhi phekari, ped lynx or Caracal cat.
There are also reservoirs of low-grade coal, chalk, bauxite, and zircon.
There are also several smaller airports which have flights to and from the Gulf because of the large Pakistani diaspora working in the region.
There are also the gulfs of Khambhat and Kutch on the Indian Coast.
There are many named and unnamed peaks in Pakistan that are currently not included in this list.
There are mineral and marble resources in Azad Kashmir close to Mirpur and Muzaffarabad.
There are more than 50,000 pieces of rock art (petroglyphs) and inscriptions all along the Karakoram Highway in Gilgit-Baltistan, concentrated at ten major sites between Hunza and Shatial.
There are remnants of thousand-year-old cities and structures, with a notable example in Sindh being that of Mohenjo Daro.
There are scattered communities of Kashmiri speakers, notably in the Neelam Valley, where they form the second-largest language group after speakers of Hindko.
There are several islands in the Arabian Sea, with the most important ones being Lakshadweep Islands (India), Socotra (Yemen), Masirah (Oman) and Astola Island (Pakistan).
There are several other tributaries nearby, which may form a longer stream than Sênggê Kanbab, but unlike the Sênggê Kanbab, are all dependent on snowmelt.
There are speakers of Dogri in the southernmost district of Bhimber, where they are estimated to represent almost a third of the district's population.
There are two otter species in the Indus River basin: the Eurasian otter in the northeastern highland sections and the smooth-coated otter elsewhere in the river basin.
There are very few, vague laws and policies in regards to noise levels.
There are very small numbers of residents who are the adherents of Roman Catholicism denomination of Christianity, Hinduism and Sikhism, mainly living in Peshawar and other urban centres.
There had been tensions between Pakistan and Afghanistan ever since Afghanistan voted against Pakistan's inclusion in the United Nations in 1948.
There is a project to introduce tigers and Asian elephants too in KNP near the huge Hub Dam Lake.
There is a significant number of warships of all nations coming in and out of the port, which makes it a very safe bubble.
There is also a cricket stadium in Muzaffarabad with a capacity of 8,000 people.
There is also a dargah named after him, the Haji Ratan Dargah, in Bathinda, where he settled after his conversion to Islam.
There is an Indus site on the Amu Darya at Shortughai in northern Afghanistan, and the Indus site Alamgirpur at the Hindon River is located only 28 km (17 mi) from Delhi.
There is an important literature produced in the province, mainly in Pashto but also in Urdu and in Hindko, and in 2022 more than 25,000 books were published in these three languages.
There is an ongoing process of gradual shift to larger local languages, but at least in the Neelam Valley there still exist communities for whom Kashmiri is the sole mother tongue.
There is no official data on the total number of Bahais in AJK.
There was a violent capture of the fortress of Kharphocho.
There was also a Christian minority of 26,462 individuals in the province.
There was no democratic set-up during this period.
There were also Hindu and Christian minorities in the province.
There were other tensions in the area as well, particularly those that involved agitations by Pashtun tribesmen against the Imperial government.
There would also be one daily bus in each direction between the Sust and Taxkorgan border areas of the two political entities.
There, the M-6 (which is proposed with construction work to begin soon) will start; the M6 will end at Hyderabad, where it will meet the existing M9 motorway to Karachi.
Therefore, Pakistan is already at high risk due to debt from China.
Though agriculture and livestock play a dominant role in the provincial economy by contributing 47% of its GDP.
Though very internationally unlikely, but even for some local historians like Hassan Hasrat from Skardu and for some national writers like Ahmed Hasan Dani it was originated in same region.
Three manufacturers were ordered to produce 60,000 four-stroke vehicles, but they reportedly supplied 2,000 to the government which are now plying on city roads.
Three of the world's longest glaciers outside of Earth's polar regions are found in Gilgit-Baltistan.
Three of the world's longest glaciers outside the polar regions are found in Gilgit-Baltistan: the Biafo Glacier, the Baltoro Glacier, and the Batura Glacier.
Through the importation of gas cylinders from other provinces, many private gas contractors offer gas cylinders.
Throughout most of the region, the average rainfall exceeds 1400 mm, with the highest average rainfall occurring near Muzaffarabad (around 1800 mm).
Tibetan control of the region lasted until late-800s CE.
To date, over 1,052 cities and settlements have been found, mainly in the general region of the Ghaggar-Hakra River and its tributaries.
To the south, the Indus glacier was the main valley glacier, which flowed 120 kilometres (75 mi) down from the Nanga Parbat massif to 870 metres (2,850 ft) elevation.
To this period may be ascribed the fine statues and bas-reliefs found in Gandhara and Udyana.
Today Baltistan bears similarity to Ladakh physically and culturally (although not in religion).
Today, Muslims make up 90% of the population, and are more dominant in urban than rural areas.
Today, in the Muzaffarabad District the preferred local name for the language is Hindko, although it is still apparently more closely related to the core dialects of Pahari.
Today, remittances from British Mirpuri community make a critical role in AJK's economy.
Tourism in Punjab is regulated by the Tourism Development Corporation of Punjab.
Tourism is mostly in trekking and mountaineering, and this industry is growing in importance.
Traffic jams are a common scene in major cities across Pakistan.
Transport in Pakistan (Urdu: پاکِستان میں نقل و حمل) is extensive and varied.
Transportation challenges in Pakistan are escalating due to poor planning, inadequate governance, and corrupt practices.
Travel through the area is difficult and dangerous, although the government is attempting to develop certain areas into tourist and trekking sites.
Trees shed their leaves to avoid loss of moisture.
Trees were planted, and mosques and temples built along the road.
Tremors continue in the vicinity of Quetta.
Tributaries are listed from the mouth to the source.
Tributary river of River Indus; flows from Tangir Valley District Diamer down to the river Indus with Karakuram Highway.
Turkey - An Istanbul-Tehran-Islamabad passenger rail service was proposed recently.
Turkic tribes practising Zoroastrianism arrived in Gilgit during the 7th century, and founded the Trakhan dynasty in Gilgit.
Turkmenistan - Via Afghanistan (proposed) – avoiding 4 ft 8+1⁄2 in (1,435 mm) standard gauge intervening.
Umerkot district in the Thar Desert is Pakistan's only Hindu-majority district.
Under Huvishka's successor, Vasushka, the dominions of the Kushan kings shrank.
Under his leadership the Chathas gained several successes over the Sikhs,and it at one time looked as if the progress of the Sikh arms had been arrested and their dominion in the Doab annihilated.
Under the Arab Umayyads (661–750), many Shias sought asylum in the region of Sindh, to live in relative peace in the remote area.
Unemployment has been reduced due to the establishment of industrial zones.
Unfortunately, it is hunted by locals and foreigners.
Unlike more easterly parts of Pakistan, Quetta does not have a monsoon season of heavy rainfall.
Unofficially, it was known as Sarhad (Urdu: سرحد), derived from the province's Urdu name given to it by the Mughals, which means "frontier".
Unprecedented torrential monsoon rains caused severe flooding in 16 districts of Sindh province.
Unprecedented torrential monsoon rains caused severe flooding in 16 districts of Sindh.
Urdu being the national language is used and understood by all the residents and serves as a lingua franca.
Use of firearms, polluting water, cleaning of land for cultivation, destruction of wildlife is banned in these areas.
Various farming activities result in the erosion of soil particles.
Vegetation and wildlife of the Indus delta are threatened by the reduced inflow of fresh water, along with extensive deforestation, industrial pollution and global warming.
Very high altitudes modify the climate in the cold, snow-covered northern mountains; temperatures on the Balochistan plateau are somewhat higher.
Water lilies grow in abundance in the numerous lakes and ponds, particularly in the lower Sindh region.
Weather extremes are notable from the hot and barren south to the cool hills of the north.
What later became the Princely states of Pakistan chose at first to remain independent.
What this manipulation indicates is that even before formally becoming a part of Pakistan, Balochistan had fallen prey to political victimization.
When asked by Alexander how he wished to be treated, Porus replied "Treat me as a king would treat another king".
When the British established it as a province, they called it "North West Frontier Province" (abbreviated as NWFP) due to its relative location being in the northwest of the British Indian Empire.
When the Second World War broke out, nationalism in British India had already divided into religious movements.
When the river passes Jamshoro, it ends in a large delta to the South of Thatta in the Sindh province of Pakistan.
When they collide with the mountain slopes, winter depressions provide heavy precipitation.
When wells are dug that happen to yield sweet tasting water, people tend to settle near them, but such wells are difficult and dangerous to dig, sometimes claiming the lives of the well-diggers.
Where there is no such insulation, the rate of retreat is high.
While it is the third-largest Pakistani province in terms of both its population and its economy, it is geographically the smallest.
While many Balochis support the demand for autonomy, the majority are not interested in seceding from Pakistan.
While the 2009 reforms have added to the self-identification of the region, they have not resolved the constitutional status of the region within Pakistan.
While the interim constitution does not give them a choice, the people of Azad Kashmir have not considered any option other than joining Pakistan.
Winter in some parts even starts in late October-early November.
Winter starts in late November and ends in late February with average temperatures near 4–5 °C (39–41 °F).
Winters are cold, with minimum mean temperatures in Punjab of about 4 °C (39 °F) in January, and sub-zero temperatures in the far north and Balochistan.
Winters are extremely cold in the north and the milder they get the more you go to the south.
Winters are mild on the plains, with temperatures never falling below freezing point.
With a coastline of about 1046 km, Pakistan has enough fishery resources that remain to be fully developed.
With a population of over 127 million, it is the most populous province in Pakistan and the second most populous subnational polity in the world.
With its contribution ranging from 52.1% to 64.5% in the Service Sector and 56.1% to 61.5% in the agriculture sector.
With regard to annual household income, people living in the higher areas are more dependent on remittances than are those living in the lower areas.
With the Independence of Bangladesh, Pakistan lost 20 of its districts and so there were 106 districts.
With the appropriate infrastructure in place, the British hoped to utilise Sindh for its economic potential.
With the defeat of the Greeks, the land was once more under Hindu rule.
With the exception of Pashto and English, those languages belong to the Indo-Aryan language family.
With the new plane, the cancellation of flights is much less frequent.
With this, the Sammas became independent.
Within cities, buses provide a significant role in commuting a large number of travelers from one city to another.
Within the next few centuries of human settlement on the Tibetan Plateau, this region became inhabited by Tibetans, who preceded the Balti people of Baltistan.
Without the thermal low pressure caused by the heating, there was no monsoon over the Indian subcontinent.
Workshops throughout the province support the manufacture of small arms and weapons.
Yet, deforestation is happening at an alarming rate in Pakistan.
Yusufzai tribes rose against Mughals during the Yusufzai Revolt of 1667, and engaged in pitched-battles with Mughal battalions in Peshawar and Attock.
Zalzala Koh was an island which was around for only a few years.
[a] The new districts were carved out of Mirpur Khas, Jacobabad, Larkana and Dadu Districts respectively.
[c] However, a clear divide is present between the northern and southern regions of the province; with northern Punjab being relatively more developed than southern Punjab.
[d] References to a land of five rivers are found in the Mahabharata, in which one of the regions is named as Panchanada (Sanskrit: पञ्चनद, romanised: pañca-nada, lit.
[note 1] Gilgit-Baltistan is six times larger than Azad Kashmir in terms of geographical area.
[note 2] Ghulam Nabi Gilkar, under the assumed name "Mr. Anwar," issued a proclamation in the name of the provisional government in Muzaffarabad.
al-Baladhuri adds that this stopped any more incursions until the reign of Uthman.
and declined rapidly 1,000 years later, following the Indo-Aryan migrations that overran the region in waves between 1500 and 500 B.C.
and during 2008–09 grew at 6% against the total GDP growth of Pakistan at 4%.
small, loosely-scattered patches of greenery).
with growing facilities and particular local geography Climbing, trekking and other similar sports are also getting popularity.
