"Corruption is a curse in India and amongst Muslims, especially the so-called educated and intelligentsia.
"Our objective should be peace within and peace without.
"That has very much disrupted their efforts in Afghanistan and has caused them to be less effective in terms of their ability to pull off an attack in Kabul," Anderson added.
'Order of Lion Urdu نشان حیدر') is the highest and most prestigious honour awarded posthumously for bravery and actions of valor in event of war.
'Soldier Foundation') is a Pakistani conglomerate publicly traded on the Pakistan Stock Exchange (PSX).
'change is coming'), mobilized people in rallies over public distress on various national issues, the most notable of which was the 2014 Azadi march.
(1) There shall be [three hundred and thirty-six] seats for members in the National Assembly, including seats reserved for women and non-Muslims.
(1) There shall be a Cabinet of Ministers, with the Prime Minister at its head, to aid and advise the President in the exercise of his functions.
(2) Election to fill seats in the Senate allocated to each Province shall be held in accordance with the system of proportional representation by means of the single transferable vote.
(2) The National Assembly shall meet on the twenty-first day following the day on which a general election to the Assembly is held unless sooner summoned by the President.
(3) Now withstanding anything contained in clause (1) or clause (2), the President shall appoint the most senior Judge of the Supreme Court as the Chief Justice of Pakistan.
(Primarily Deobandi background according to another source—author John R. Schmidt).
(c) three members from the Federal Government to be nominated by the Prime Minister from time to time.
), had kept Osama bin Laden in an Intelligence Bureau safe house in Abbottabad.
... Civil Service is the backbone of the State.
... you are now a sovereign legislative body and you have got all the powers.
1.8 billion to the National Logistics Corporation through speculative investments between 2004 and 2008.
1.98 billion in damages to government and military facilities.
14 of 1985), seven seats were added to the general seats and ten to the reserved seats for women in the National Assembly.
175 Candidates from across Punjab contested in these by-elections.
19th Amendment became part of the Constitution after the assent of President Asif Ali Zardari on 1 January 2011.
19th Amendment was passed by the National Assembly on 22 December 2010 and Senate on 30 December 2010 respectively.
2, 2001), the president converted the orders of suspension of legislative bodies and their presiding officers, into dissolution.
20th Amendment was passed unanimously by National Assembly and Senate on 20 February 2012.
25(2) states "There shall be no discrimination on the basis of sex") but also recognizes as valid Sharia law (Chapter 3A.
3,131 Polling Stations were created in 20 Constituencies out of which 731 were for men, 700 for women, and 1700 were combined polling stations.
558,907.00 ($5,333.85) with additional allowances of ₨.
: 10–25 It is possible that, through recusals or vacancies, the Court divides evenly on a case, as such happened on the case Nusrat Bhutto v. Federation of Pakistan (1977–78).
: 112 In East Pakistan, the unified Eastern Military Command under Lt-Gen. A.A.K.
: 114–119 In 1970, the Pakistan army's military mission in Jordan was reportedly involved in tackling and curbing down the Palestinian infiltration in Jordan.
: 145 In 1976, the first Chairman joint chiefs was appointed from the army with Gen. Muhammad Shariff taking over the chairmanship, but resigned a year later.
: 145 In 2002, The Supreme Court supervised the general elections successfully oversaw the transition of power from the office of Chief Executive to Prime minister.
: 151 : 319 : 319 Over the issue of Baloch conflict, the Pakistani military remained engage in Omani civil war in favor of Omani government until the rebels were defeated in 1979.
: 155–156 In total, the size of the new army was about ~150,000 men strong.
: 163 Those who are turned away are strongly encourage to join the Marines Corps or the Air Force.
: 1915 The Supreme Court, however, did take the petitions to review the case of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, after his counsels filed an appeal against the verdict of Lahore High Court.
: 19–20 During Bhutto's administration, Pakistan's military pursued a policy of greater self-reliance in arms production.
: 1–2 The Museum's collections include fine arts, oral histories, photographs, personal belongings of judges and chief justices and an archival collection of rare documents.
: 2 These collections are displayed in the permanent exhibit gallery of the Museum, as well as in temporary exhibits; surely in future these archival materials will be assets to the researchers.
: 220 The honour is a namesake of Ali and the recipients receiving this honorary title as a sign of respect: Shaheed meaning martyr.
: 261 In 2010, the Pakistan Army was awarded with a gold medal at the Exercise Cambrian Patrol held in Wales in the United Kingdom.
: 27 The military interference in civic matters grew further when the martial law was extended for an infinite period despite maintaining that the elections to be held in 90-days prior.
: 292 Center point of the uppermost chevron must remain 10 cm from the point of the shoulder.
: 292 Pay scales and incentives are greater and attractive upon enlistment including the allocation of land, free housing, and financial aid to attend the colleges and universities.
: 292 The Company/battalion appointments wear the appointments badges on the right wrist.
: 294 Retirement age for the enlisted personnel varies and depends on the enlisted ranks that they have attained during their services.
: 2–3 Members of the Supreme Court Bar Association are also granted access to the Supreme Court Library's research collection and law periodicals.
: 30–31 At the request from the Saudi monarchy, the Zia administration deployed the company of the special forces to end seizure of the Grand Mosque in Mecca from Islamists.
: 31 In Punjab and Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa where the recruitment is popular, the height requirement remains to be at 5 feet 6 inches with minimum education of 10th grade.
: 32 From 1967 to 1969, a series of major military exercises was conducted by infantry units on East Pakistan's border with India.
: 35 Eventually, the Indian invasion of Pakistan came to halt when the Indian Army concluded the battle near Burki.
: 350 The legalisation of Contempt of court act further strengthened the judicial independence of the Supreme Court in 2004 when Shaukat Aziz became prime minister.
: 36 Dependence on the United States grew furthermore by the Pakistan Army despite it had worrisome concerns to the country's politicians.
: 36 During this time, an army combat brigade team was readily made available by Gen. Ayub Khan to deploy to support the American Army's fighting troops in the Korean war.
: 365 The Constitution Bench formed under Chief Justice Sh.
: 40 Sporadic fighting between militia and Indian Army broke out, and units of the Pakistan Army under Maj-Gen. Akbar Khan, eventually joined the militia in their fight against the Indian Army.
: 55 In 1948, the British army officers in the Pakistan Army established and raised the 10th, 12th, and the 14th infantry divisions— with the 14th being established in East Bengal.
: 55 In 1950, the 15th Infantry Division was raised with the help from the United States Army, followed by the establishment of the 15th Lancers in Sialkot.
: 59 In the views of Chief Justice Rahman, the martial law was invalid and notably ruled that Yahya Khan's assumption of power was "illegal usurpation".
: 59–60 In light of the Supreme Court's judgement, the army held the publicly televised conference when President Yahya Khan announced to hold the nationwide general elections in 1969–70.
: 61 By 1979, the Supreme Court greatly divided with Justice Dorab Patel, Justice G.S.
: 67 Under the Chief Justice Muh'd Shahabuddin, the Supreme Court had the conservative leanings in regards to the constitutionalism and their judgements in the cases of important issues.
: 67–68 Chief Justice Shahabuddin plays a crucial role in drafting the second set of the Constitution of Pakistan which incorporated the liberal ideas with the important Islamic provisions.
: 6–7 During the time of the orality by either sides of the parties, the justices may interrupt the advocate and ask questions.
: 7 The petitioner gives the first presentation, and may reserve some time to rebut the respondent's arguments after the respondent has concluded.
: 81 The subsequent change of command resulted in Gen. Musa Khan becoming the army commander with Ayub Khan promoting himself as controversial rank of field marshal.
: 94–95 Over the several successive years, the work of the Court increased and cases began to accumulate, leading the Supreme Court requesting the Parliament to increase the number of judges.
: xxx However, Justice Shah's judicial leanings did not protected the Benazir' administration when it was dismissed by President Farooq Leghari over allegations on corruption.
: xxxv The standard rifle for the army is the German designed and POF manufactured Koch G3P4.
; whereas the increase educational qualification by 14 to 16 years.
A 2014 report says about 1,000 Christian and Hindu women in Pakistan are forcibly converted to Islam every year.
A 2025 IMF report identifies the judiciary as one of the critical bottlenecks behind corruption.
A District Government or a City District Government and Zillah Council form the governing body, with the District Coordination Officer serving as the administrative head.
A National Security Council meeting was called by the Pakistan Army which declared the allegations were based on lies and misconception without specifically naming Sharif.
A Protocol for the establishment of diplomatic relations between Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan was signed on 10 May 1992.
A Union Council is the basic tier of local government in Pakistan.
A candidate can appear for a maximum of three attempts.
A cornerstone of the success of China's Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) is the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).
A court ruled he was ineligible due to an old conviction, amid a government appeal in the Supreme Court, which was slated to hear the case on 30 June, thus postponing the vote in the constituency.
A crackdown was also initiated on vocal women supporters of PTI - the most prominent of which was Khadija Shah, a businesswoman and granddaughter of former Pakistani Army Chief, Asif Nawaz Janjua.
A director-general, who is traditionally a serving lieutenant general in the Pakistan Army, heads the ISI.
A district (Urdu: ضلع‬, zillah) is the first tier of local government.
A further feature of the judicial system is the office of Mohtasib (Ombudsman), which is provided for in the constitution.
A high court is the principal court of its province.
A judge of the Supreme Court can be removed under the Constitution only on grounds of proven misconduct or incapacity and by an order of the President of Pakistan.
A judge who has retired as a justice of the Supreme Court is debarred from practising in any court of law or before any other authority in Pakistan.
A major tank battle took place in Chawinda, at which the newly established 1st Armoured Division was able to halt the Indian invasion.
A majority of the participants reported that they, or someone in their household, have been subjected to an act of corruption while interacting with someone from the judiciary.
A matter can be remitted to a standing committee by the Speaker or the Assembly suo moto and without moving any motion.
A membership drive in November and December 2008 resulted in 150,000 people joining the party.
A multi-party system is in effect, with the National Assembly consisting of 342 seats and the Senate consisting of 100 seats (after ex-FATA merger) elected from the four provinces.
A no-confidence motion was tabled against PM Imran Khan on 28 March 2022.
A number of constitutional amendments were made to make the country a parliamentary democracy.
A populist constitutional movement eventually resulted in Musharraf's departure.
A populist intellectual movement leading to the departure of Pervez Musharraf allowed Asif Zardari to become president.
A principled approach limits their ability to operate when the government emphasizes political and security considerations.
A resolution to impeach the president has to be passed by the two-thirds majority.
A session of the National Assembly is summoned by the President under Article 54(1) of the Constitution.
A session of the Punjab Assembly was held on 16 April 2022, in which the opposition candidate Hamza Shahbaz was elected the new Chief Minister but he was not able to take the oath of office.
A special Afghanistan section known as the SS Directorate was created under the command of Brigadier Mohammed Yousaf to oversee day-to-day operations in Afghanistan.
A spokesman for Sharif said that Indian media had twisted his statement to make it seem like he had suggested that the state of Pakistan endorsed and was directly involved in the attacks.
A top-ranking Muslim League leader, Khaliquzzaman, declared that Pakistan would bring together all Muslim countries into Islamistan – a pan-Islamic entity.
A tradition of appointment based on favoritism and qualification that is still in practice by the civilian Prime Ministers in Pakistan.
A two-judge panel found there was no evidence to prove the prosecution case that Maryam Nawaz abetted any corruption in buying high-end apartments in London.
A written reference has to be sent to the Supreme Judicial Council that will conduct the hearings of allegations of misconduct that would determine the removal of judge.
A year after elections, on 11 May 2014, PTI alleged that the 2013 general elections were rigged in favour of the ruling PML (N).
About national languages, Urdu was declared as national languages, and English as official language; all other languages were preserved by the Constitution.
According one news article, the Supreme Court applied its judgement retroactively, having effect from 3 November 2007.
According to Article 50 of the Constitution, the National Assembly, the Senate and the President together make up a body known as the Majlis-e-Shoora (Council of Advisers).
According to Ghazi Salahuddin of The News International, controversy ensued after the October meeting and the Dawn report, which lingered until May 2016.
According to National Counter Terrorism Authority (Nacta), Pakistan experienced largest number of terrorist attack in 2010.
According to South Asian Terrorism Portal Index (SATP), terrorism in Pakistan has declined by 89% in 2017 since its peak years in 2009.
According to Stephen P. Cohen and John Wilson, the ISI's aid to and creation of designated terrorist groups and religious extremist groups is well-documented.
According to Voice for Baloch Missing Persons (VBMP) around 528 Baloch have gone missing from 2001 to 2017.
According to Women's Studies professor Shahla Haeri, rape in Pakistan is "often institutionalized and has the tacit and at times the explicit approval of the state".
According to a study carried out by Human Rights Watch there is a rape once every two hours and a gang rape every hour.
According to a study carried out in 2009 by Human Rights Watch, it is estimated that between 70 and 90 percent of women and girls in Pakistan have suffered some form of abuse.
According to lawyer Asma Jahangir, who is a co-founder of the women's rights group Women's Action Forum, up to seventy-two percent of women in custody in Pakistan are physically or sexually abused.
According to modern Pakistani sources, in 1974 one of the PAF pilots, Flt.
According to some estimates, 90 percent of civil cases involve land disputes, owing to Pakistan's lack of a proper land register.
According to some experts, the ISI is the largest intelligence agency in the world in terms of total staff.
According to the 2002 study, 99% of 256 respondents reported facing corruption of taxation.
According to the Aurat Foundation, about 1,000 non-Muslim girls are forcibly converted to Islam in Pakistan every year.
According to the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan data, just around 1,000 Hindu families fled to India in 2013.
According to the Inter-Parliamentary Union ranking, Pakistan ranks 100th in the list of 190 countries in terms of representation of women.
According to the Progressive Women's Association such attacks are a growing problem and in 1994 on International Women's Day announced that various NGO's would join to raise awareness of the issue.
According to the V-Dem Democracy indices Pakistan was autocratizing in 2024.
According to the article, the majority of Pasban-e-Aman Force personnel belong to Gujar Khan, the constituency of then NA Speaker Raja Pervez Ashraf.
According to the constitution, the 70 seats reserved for women and religious minorities are allocated to the political parties according to their proportional representation.
According to the recommendation, the Postal and Railway Service should be made autonomous commercial bodies, and Commerce and Trade and Information Services should be suspended till further notice.
According to them, he was a serving Indian Navy officer who was arrested from Balochistan.
According to this amendment, the maximum duration between successive sessions was reduced to 90 days from 130 days, and there must be at least three sessions in a year.
Accumulated losses of up to Rs 254 million were reported with several instances of over-staffing and inefficient productivity in heavy mechanical industries.
Across the country, the expectations were that a National Assembly would be set up by holding a free and fair election.
Adding 28 women and 5 Minority seats, the total tally reached 149.
Additional District & Sessions Judges are appointed by the Provincial & federal High Courts, from a pool of Lawyers and subordinate judges.
Additionally the Government of Pakistan has itself admitted on several occasions that it has absolutely no control over the military of Pakistan and related security agencies.
Additionally there are 3339 neighbourhood, ‘tehsil’ and village councils in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Additionally, PTI secured government in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa with 78 seats, Punjab with 175 seats, and formed an alliance government in Balochistan.
Additionally, Pakistan also administers two autonomous territories[Note 1] in the disputed region of Kashmir: Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan.
Additionally, advisors nominated by the chairman are part of the council.
Addressing the Pakistan Army, he said "if you are neutral then be neutral too".
Addressing the bureaucracy and the police, Khan said it would be illegal for them to take any action against the "peaceful protest".
Adil Gillani, an advisor for TI Pakistan, observed in 2012 that if Pakistan checked the menace of corruption and ensured good governance, it would not require a single penny from the outside world.
Advocates can be admitted as either individuals or groups and their admission is approved by the elected president of the Bar.
Afghan President's spokesperson, Aimal Faizi, told reporters that the National Directorate of Security (NDS) was working with Latif.
Afridi was not allowed to attend his brother's funeral and was kept in inhumane conditions in a 'death cell' reserved for those on death row.
After 2020 FPSC has introduced MPT in order to shortlist the candidates before actual exams.
After Bangladesh was formed in 1971, the PPP formed the government and partially enacted the 1962 constitution.
After Benazir Bhutto was assassinated in 2007 and Nawaz Sharif returned from self-exile in Saudi Arabia, pressure increased upon President Musharraf to hold democratic elections.
After Fatima Jinnah's death, the PML was led by Nurul Amin, a Bengali leader, who deepened its role in West Pakistan.
After France and Britain, the Indian colony of Britain was the third region to see this methodology implemented.
After Independence, the first Constituent Assembly of Pakistan, elected in December 1947 after partition, was assigned the task of framing the Constitution of Pakistan.
After Zulfikar Ali Bhutto came into power in 1973, he introduced a planned economic system to revitalise the stagnant economy.
After a decades-long struggle, the military government was forced to transfer power to democratically elected officials.
After a successful intervention by Supreme Court and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs General Shamim Allam, President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif tendered resignations in 1993.
After a thorough confirmation comes from the Prime minister, the President confirms the judicial appointments in the national court system.
After appointing Rafiq Tarar, the Parliament successfully passed constitutional amendment to decisively limit the presidency.
After consultation with the leadership of all political parties in the Parliament, Speaker National Assembly announced the Constitutional Reforms Committee (CRC) on 29 April 2009.
After dawn on 26 May, Imran Khan called off the March on Blue Area just 2.1 miles away from where the police stood firing tear gas shells.
After deposing Sharif's government, the party split into several groups and its size shrunk as many of its members decided to defect to the splinter political bloc.
After dismissing Prime Minister Junejo, President Zia-ul-Haq announced that new general elections would be held, but President Zia died in a plane crash in 1988.
After five years of basic service, officers are entrusted with sensitive jobs and considered part of the core team.
After his ouster, month later Khan led the 2022 Azadi march, and later the Haqeeqi Azadi march in October to protest the new government and call for early elections in the country.
After his retirement, he helped President Muhammed Zia-ul-Haq.
After holding general elections in 1990, Nawaz Sharif brought up an ideologically conservative government and President Ghulam Ishaq Khan unsuccessfully tried to dismiss Sharif.
After induction, women army officers go through a six-month military training at the Pakistan Military Academy which is not like their male counterparts.
After obtaining a vote of confidence, the prime minister is invited by the president to take the oath of office and form the government.
After passage of the 18th and 19th Constitutional Amendments, a new Judicial Commission (named Judicial Commission of Pakistan) and Parliamentary Committee were established for appointments.
After raising awareness of sexual assault committed by Pakistani security forces on women, Gulalai Ismail fled the country as police forces were on their way to arrest her.
After removal, Imran Khan waged a campaign against the military and held rallies and speeches in which he criticized the army's role in Pakistani politics.
After staging a controversial self coup in 1999, General Pervez Musharraf dismissed Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and President Rafiq Tarar in 2001 while assuming more powers to the presidency.
After the 1958 coup d'état, all national intelligence agencies were directly controlled by the president and Chief Martial Law Administrator.
After the 1984 referendum, President Zia-ul-Haq had become the country's elected president.
After the 1993 general election, the PPP nominated Farooq Leghari who soon secured majority votes in the parliament.
After the Bangladesh Liberation War Pakistan was becoming less autocratic until the 1977 Pakistani military coup after the 1977 Pakistani general election.
After the JIT submitted its report and subsequent arguments were heard, the Court disqualified Sharif from holding public office by unanimous verdict.
After the Taliban took power in 2021, border clashes between Pakistan and Afghanistan have increased sharply.
After the Twenty-Fifth Amendment, the number of seats in the Senate was reduced to 96, as the seats for FATA were removed after its merger with KPK.
After the adoption of the Second Constitution of 1962, Parliament sessions were arranged both at Dhaka and a newly constructed building (Ayub Hall) at Rawalpindi.
After the appointment of Justice Qazi Faez Isa, there has come a significant change in the working of the apex court of the land.
After the approval of 18th Constitutional Amendment in April 2010, a new High court is established at Federal Capital Islamabad with the name of Islamabad High Court.
After the assassination of Muhtarma Benazir Bhutto on 27 December 2007, date of election was rescheduled for 18 February 2008.
After the assassination of Prime Minister Ali Khan, the Muslim League struggled to revive itself, eventually losing control of East Pakistan in legislative elections to the Left Front.
After the assent of the president on 19 April 2010, 18th Amendments became part of Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
After the breakdown of the relationship with the military in 1999, the party was eclipsed by its own splinter faction, the Musharraf-backed "Quaid", for almost a decade.
After the deadly 9/11 attacks in the United States and Musharraf's unconditional policy to support the American war in Afghanistan, further damaged Musharraf's credibility in the country.
After the dismissal of Nawaz Sharif's government in July 2017, Khawaja Muhammad Asif held the portfolio of foreign minister under the premiership of Shahid Khaqan Abbasi.
After the draw down of civil-military relations in 1999, Chairman joint chiefs General Pervez Musharraf staged a coup d'état against the PML(N)'s government and held nationwide elections in 2002.
After the election, PTI formed a wide ranging coalition government of several parties falling at the political centre.
After the end of the first Gulf War in 1991, Pakistani army engineers were involved in a programme of mine clearance in the country.
After the fall of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) -led coalition government in 2022, the emergence of multiple crises has exacerbated the instability of its foreign policy.
After the foundation of Pakistan, it has established diplomatic and trade relations with Egypt.
After the general elections held in 1970, the office was established with Nurul Amin becoming the prime minister who was also the vice-president.
After the martial law of 1977, the party reassessed itself and saw the rise of the powerful oligarch bloc led by Zahoor Illahi, who was the main PML leader.
After the presidential election held in 2008, Asif Ali Zardari lobbied for constitutional amendment to restore the Constitution as it was in 1973.
After the resignation from the post of Chief of Army Staff, Mr. Pervez Musharraf administered the oath of President of Islamic Republic of Pakistan on 29 November 2007.
After the victory of Imran Khan Niazi in the Pakistan General Elections 2018, Shah Mehmood Qureshi was named the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
After two days, it became apparent on social media that the federal government of Pakistan had yet to issue any formal notification for the appointment of the new director general.
After years of political pressure, the Chief Minister of Punjab Usman Buzdar resigned.
Aid was given to Pakistan for the first time again in 2002, and the 2000s saw an extension of this friendly relationship.
Al Jazeera reported that six judges of the Islamabad High Court (IHC) accused the ISI of interference in judicial matters, citing abduction, torture, and surveillance.
Al-Qaeda has repeatedly labelled ISI their enemy, and claimed the Pakistani military and intelligence are their main targets in Pakistan.
All candidates who pass the examinations are given a psychological test.
All cases that come before the supreme court through the writs of certiorari that are processed through the law clerks and advocates.
All convictions awarded by judicial magistrates and convictions up to four years awarded by courts of assistant sessions judges or magistrates especially empowered under section 30 Cr.P.C.
All data and calculations are provided by Election Commission of Pakistan as the public domain.
All decisions that are pronounced by the supreme court, after hearing the review petitions, are considered as final rulings that are to be binding on all other courts in Pakistan.
All elections were contested under a separate electorate system, the 1990 elections had allegations of vote-rigging confirmed by foreign observers.
All executive authority of the Republic of Pakistan, under the Constitution, vested in the office of the president.
All external operations are carried out under the supervision of the ISI's S Wing.
All final decisions are appealable before the court of district judge while interim orders are not appealable but are challenged before high court through the constitutional jurisdiction.
All members of the federal legislature, the Parliament, are directly elected.
All power of executive was curtailed by the judicial commission and president has no discretionary power but only to approve the nominees.
All provincial assemblies are unicameral, elected for five years.
All supreme court advocates are required to be members of the Supreme Court Bar Association in order to plead the cases before the court.
All the Cabinet ministers as well as the Prime Minister must be members of Parliament (MPs), according to the constitution.
All the cadets have to attend and be trained at the PMA regardless of attending the military schools and colleges in other parts of the country.
Allegations of rigging in the 2024 Pakistani general election were widespread.
Almost all judges of above-mentioned courts and tribunals except for consumer courts are district and sessions judges or of having same qualifications.
Also, Germany is home to 35,081 Pakistani immigrants.
Also, Nawaz Sharif was condemned to 10 years in lockup for money laundering, including his daughter Maryam Nawaz for 7 years.
Also, in 1956, when Pakistan declared itself a republic, it continued as a member of the Commonwealth of Nations.
Also, the terms "Federal" and "National" in government institutions or program names generally indicate affiliation with the federal government.
Although Iran later established ties with the reestablished Taliban government in Afghanistan, the insurgency in Balochistan has increased friction in relations between Iran and Pakistan.
Although Musharraf was elected in 2007, the constitutional legality of Musharraf's rule was found dubious.
Although enforced in 1973, Pakistan, however, celebrates the adoption of the constitution on 23 March—when the first set was promulgated in 1956 each and every year as Republic Day.
Although some of these laws were later repealed, religious minorities still continue to face several restrictions in politics.
Although the government has enacted a few measures to counter any problems, abuses remain.
Although the party initially supported social conservatism, in recent years, the party's political ideology and platform has become more liberally conservative.
America's deference to India reflects its importance to counter China's influence in Asia.
Amid agitation instigated by the right-wing alliance invited the military intervention in 1977 which suspended the post.
Amnesty International published a document concerning the investigation of ISI over the murder of Saleem Shahzad.
Among the most important of these are the Eighth (1985) and Seventeenth Amendments (2004), which changed the government from a parliamentary system to a semi-presidential system.
Among the three tiers of local government, Tehsil government is its second tier.
An Ahmadi can be easily charged for profession of his faith or for ‘posing’ as a Muslim.
An assessment by British Intelligence in 2000 into Al-Qaeda training camps in Afghanistan showed the ISI were playing an active role in some of them.
An austerity drive and a number of welfare programs were also set up by the PTI government to create a social safety net under the party’s flagship Ehsaas Programme and Sehat Insaf Card.
An elected PMLN Sindh government in alliance with MQM was dismissed and President's rule was imposed.
An estimated 5,000 women are killed per year as a result of domestic violence, with many maimed or disabled.
An estimated 5,000 women are killed per year from domestic violence, with thousands of others maimed or disabled.
Andrews, who was the sitting member of the National Assembly.
Another Amendment (Seventeenth) in 2004 continued this shift, but in 2010, the Eighteenth amendment reduced presidential powers, returning the government to a parliamentary republic.
Another significant amendment was the second amendment which declared Ahmadis to be non-Muslims.
Another woman member, Mrs. Najma Andrews, was elected on a reserved seat for minorities after the death of her husband R.M.
Anti-corruption drives in the police led to the conviction of officers found to be corrupt.
Any criticism of the regime was seen as a threat to national security.
Apart from Karachi, Sindh was largely overlooked by PTI during much of its election campaign, and this is reflected in the results.
Appeal against its decisions lie to the Shariat Appellate Bench of the Supreme Court, consisting of three Muslim judges of the Supreme Court and two Ulema, appointed by the President.
Appeals from special courts go to high courts except for labour and traffic courts, which have their own forums for appeal.
Appeals from the tribunals go to the Supreme Court.
Appointed by the president, the Mohtasib holds office for four years; the term cannot be extended or renewed.
Around the same time, the PPP's popularity began to decrease after the disqualification of Yusuf Raza Gillani in 2012.
Article 1 substituted the name "Parliament" for the more Islamic term Majlis-e-Shoora.
Article 17 (2) of the Constitution provides every citizen with the right to form or be a member of a political party.
Article 222–229 of the Constitution of Pakistan forbids the candidate from joining the membership of National Assembly and the provincial assemblies simultaneously.
Article 243 has been a contentious issue as well.
Article 34 of the Constitution emphasizes full participation of women in national life and states that "Steps shall be taken to ensure full participation of women in all spheres of national life".
Article 50 of the Constitution clearly states that the Parliament of Pakistan consists of the President and two Houses known as the National Assembly and the Senate.
Article 50 of the Constitution provides that the Parliament of Pakistan shall consist of president and the two houses known as the National Assembly and the Senate.
Article 50 of the Constitution provides that the Parliament shall consist of the president and the two houses known as the National Assembly and the Senate.
As Musharraf was forced out from power, Asif Zardari of PPP became president after a close presidential elections in 2008.
As a result a coalition government was formed by Shehbaz Sharif and PML-N.
As a result of the election, PTI backed candidates formed the largest group in the new parliament but did not constitute a simple majority.
As a result of the police trying to stop the rally, 100 people were injured.
As a result, Gohar Ali Khan was made PTI chairman, Shibli Faraz was made PTI head in the Senate and Omar Ayub Khan was made candidate for Prime Minister.
As in most of the parliamentary democracies, a head of state's duties are mostly ceremonial.
As many as 939 candidates contested the election for 189 seats, while the remaining seats were filled unopposed.
As of 2002, 96% of surveyed individuals reported corruption issues with electrical utility officials during the past year.
As of 2011, the camouflage pattern of the brown and black BDU was issued and is worn by the officers and the army troops in their times of deployments.
As of 2014 the Pakistani ambassador to Argentina, Imtiaz Ahmad was accredited to Uruguay.
As of 2017, Pakistan's judiciary is suffering from a backlog of two million cases, with lawsuits taking an average of nearly ten years to resolve.
As of 2018, the Pakistani state was using Islamist militants to crush Balochi separatists.
As of 2019[update], 25 amendments have been made to the Constitution.
As of 2022, most terrorist activities in Pakistan have been concentrated in the provinces of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan.
As of 2025, Pakistan’s legal system was overwhelmed by more than two million pending cases.
As of 2025[update], Pakistan does not recognize Israel and its ties with India remain frozen since 2019.
As of 30 September 2024, the ISI is headed by Lt. Gen. Asim Malik.
As of December 2022[update], the current Chief of Army Staff is Field Marshal Asim Munir, who was appointed to the position on 29 November 2022.
As of current formation, Yahya Afridi is tenuring as the Chief Justice of Pakistan, having been appointed on 26 October 2024.
As of current, the supreme court has 10 law clerks for the 2016–17 year.
As of current, there are two justices are on the ad hoc appointment that are from the Federal Sharia Court.
As of the 2025 reforms, the Pakistan Army is commanded by the Chief of Defence Forces (CDF), a position held concurrently by the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), who is typically a four-star general.
As part of Shimla Agreement, India sought to make sure that Pakistan would take steps to recognize Bangladesh.
As part of the ongoing Kashmir conflict, Pakistan is alleged to be backing separatist militias.
As part of this process, aspiring candidates would engage in debates and undergo primaries to secure a party ticket for contesting Provincial Assembly or National Assembly seats.
As the comprehensive Constitution reinstated in 1973, the post was reestablished with more central powers as the constitution provided a parliamentary system with President of Pakistan as figurehead.
As the seat of government is in Islamabad, "Islamabad" is commonly used as a metonym for the federal government.
Asif Ali Zardari is currently the president of Pakistan (since 2024).
Asif Ali Zardari is the 14th and current president, having assumed the presidency on 10 March 2024.
Asif's statement, made via his official social media account, drew strong reactions from relevant institutions.
At a PTI rally in Swabi, Marwat made controversial remarks, which prompted multiple internal complaints and led to the revocation of his basic membership.
At least as of 2010, the attacks have increased each year.
At the Astana Summit on 9 June 2017, Pakistan became a full member of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO).
At the conclusion of oral argument, the case is submitted for the final judgements where cases are decided by majority vote of the justices.
At the first session of the Parliament at the Ayub Hall, the martial law, imposed in 1958, was revoked.
At the international level Pakistan and Jordan have similar views such as the Israel/Palestine issue.
At the national level, the people of Pakistan elect a bicameral legislature, the Parliament of Pakistan.
At the provincial level, it was voted to power in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
At the same time, it also assisted in establishing relationships with other East Asian countries.
At the time, Pakistan served as a geostrategic position for United States military bases since it bordered the Soviet Union and China.
At times there have been claims of foreigners getting very close to Pakistani political leaderships and deep state dispensations and have had possible indirect influential roles.
Attacks against Shia Muslims, who make up between 5–20% of Pakistani Muslims, have also been carried out by terrorist organizations such as the TTP and LeJ.
Attempting to maintain his control over the princely state, Hari Singh deployed his troops to check on the tribal advances but his troops failed to halt the advancing tribes towards the valley.
Authored by Justice Ayesha Malik, the ruling dismissed FBR's petition to justify same-day recovery notices under Section 140 of the Income Tax Ordinance.
Ayub Khan, then president of Pakistan, endorsed the agreement to convene a World Constituent Assembly.
Ayub dispatched the military unit to enter in presidential palace on the midnight of 26–27 October 1958 and placed him in an airplane to exile in England.
BS-17, are classified to be filled by way of promotion or transfer and by direct recruitment under share fixed for each category.
Balochistan (11), Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (26), Punjab (66) and Sindh (29) under Article 106 of the Constitution.
Balochistan was the first province where these polls were held.
Based on the results, the FPSC shortlists the candidates and sends the list to the ISI who conduct the initial background checks.
Basic democrats were 80,000 in number (40,000 from each East and West Pakistan).
Before 2002, the electronic media was entirely dominated by state-owned institutions like Pakistan Television Corporation and Pakistan Broadcasting Corporation.
Before 2021, the appointment process of the Director-General followed no formal protocol other than verbal discussion between the Prime Minister and the head of the army.
Before military operations are undertaken, little preparation is made for the predictable increase in displaced peoples in order to avoid attracting the attention of opposing forces.
Before the 18th Amendment to the constitution in 2010, the President was quite powerful.
Before the vote, 123 members of the PTI resigned from the National Assembly.
Belarus and Pakistan have also signed agreements on trade-economic cooperation and investments protection.
Belarus' Minsk Tractor Works has played a key role in supplying tractor to Pakistan and establishing the tractor assembly plant in Pakistan.
Benazir Bhutto mounted pressure on President Ghulam Ishaq Khan, who dismissed the IDA government on 18 April 1993.
Benazir Bhutto was nominated as Prime Minister of Pakistan and took the oath of the Office on 2 December 1988.
Besides changes in other Articles in the Constitution the significant Article 58(2)(b) was added, according to which the president acquired discretionary powers to dissolves the National Assembly.
Besides, the progressive laws helped improve their participation in legislative and executive positions over the years.
Besides, there exist revenue courts, operating under the West Pakistan Land Revenue Act 1967.
Between 1947 and 1958, there were no direct elections held in Pakistan at the national level.
Between 1947 and 2000, a policy of restricting Hindus prior enlisting in the Pakistan Army was in practice until the policy was reversed by the federal government.
Between 2022 and 2023, the average inflation rate stood at 30 per cent, significantly impacting the affordability of daily essentials such as food and transportation for the poor and middle-class.
Beyond that their own position starts getting undermined because the military is after all is a mirror image of the civil society from which it is drawn.
Bhutto announced on 15 February that his party would not attend the National Assembly unless there was 'some amount of reciprocity' from the Awami League.
Bhutto's nationalisation programme lost its appeal towards the end of his government's term and the demand for denationalisation gained more currency.
Bhutto, on 7 January 1977 announced the holding of elections before time.
Bilateral relations and mutually beneficial cooperation have progressed steadily ever since.
Bilateral trade between the two countries is US$800 million but they hope to increase this to US$2 billion.
Bilateral trade in 2010 totaled US$2.4 million per year and growing yearly.
Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, a Double Taxation Convention, and an Investment Agreement.
Bogra continued to serve as Prime Minister under Governor-General Sir Malik Ghulam.
Both Bangladesh and Pakistan are members of the Commonwealth.
Both India and Pakistan are member states of the Commonwealth of Nations.
Both are also members of the OIC (Organisation of Islamic Cooperation), as well as "the next eleven" and "D8".
Both are members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and the Commonwealth of Nations.
Both civilians and members of the armed forces can join the ISI.
Both countries are also working on Mechanism of Bilateral Consultations on Issues of Mutual Interest for Mexico and Pakistan.
Both countries enjoy close relations and links of mutual friendship and the cooperation has further strengthened.
Both countries established diplomatic relations before 1992 when the High Commissioner to Australia was cross-accredited as High Commissioner of Pakistan to Tonga (resident in Canberra).
Both countries established diplomatic relations in 1963 when Mr. S. M. Khan, Pakistan High Commissioner in Canada, had been cross-appointed concurrently as High Commissioner to Trinidad and Tobago.
Both countries established diplomatic relations on 10 November 1967.
Both countries established diplomatic relations on 19 January 1963.
Both countries established diplomatic relations on 2 April 1974 when Pakistan's first ambassador to the Central African Republic, Mr. Sha Ansani presented credentials to President Jean Bedel Bokassa.
Both countries established diplomatic relations on 23 October 1967.
Both countries established diplomatic relations on 25 April 1977.
Both countries established diplomatic relations on 6 July 1962.
Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization.
Both countries were on the silk route through which civilizational exchanges took place for centuries, Islamic missionaries that introduced Islam after 711 AD were from Syria.
Both houses of the parliament have their own separate chambers; and in case of a joint session, the National Assembly chamber is used.
Both nations are members of the Developing 8 and Next Eleven countries.
Both nations share close relations on the grounds of religion and politics.
Both officers are elected from within the ranks of the National Assembly and, by current convention, are usually members of the majority party.
Both the Maldives and Pakistan are member states of the Commonwealth of Nations.
Both the Senate and the National Assembly can initiate and pass legislation except for finance bills.
Both the leaders said their alliance with the PTI is "unconditional".
Both urban and rural local government have two or three tiers in all provinces except Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, where councils are not identified as either urban or rural.
Botswana has diplomatic relations with Pakistan which is covered by the Botswanan Embassy in Beijing, China and an embassy located in Islamabad within the Republic of Yemen.
Businesses of PTI leaders who did not quit the party were sealed.
But Pakistan's non-alignment is highly contested as it shows significant inclination towards China in all spheres, including politics.
But no individual may hold the office for more than two consecutive terms.
But the bills passed by the Parliament during the State of Emergency, shall cease to be in force after the expiration of six months from the date Emergency is lifted.
But the bills passed by the Parliament during the state of emergency shall cease to be in force after the expiration of six months from the date that the emergency is lifted.
But the military government, at the request of opposition leader Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, refused to transfer power to the elected Parliament, causing the beginning of the Bangladesh Liberation War.
But the policy of Madrassah reforms, especially funding Darul Uloom Haqqania renowned for its links with Taliban and killers of Benazir Bhutto was criticised by many.
By 13 February 1971, the President Yahya announced that the National Assembly was to meet at Dhaka on 3 March 1971.
By 1976, the state had been hijacked by groups and individuals trying to accumulate wealth by redistributing resources from public enterprises to private individuals.
By 2003–05, the department of army continued its policy by drastically downsizing the personnel from Punjab to 43–70%.
By an act of parliament of 1997, the number of judges was fixed at 17.
By constitutional powers, the president promulgates ordinances and passes bills.
By general definition, the executive branch of government is the one that has sole authority and responsibility for the daily administration of the state bureaucracy.
By law, general elections must be held within two months of the National Assembly completing its term.
By mid-July 2009, Pakistan's National Database and Registration Authority (NADRA) put the total of Internally Displaced People (IDPs) at just over 2m, while unofficial figures are as high as 3.5m.
By that time, Muhammad Ali Bogra had taken over as the Prime Minister.
By the Article 246th and Article 247th to the constitution, the Islamic Jirga (or Panchayat) system has become an institution for local governance.
By this time the differences between the main parties to the conflict had already crystallised.
By-elections (in Urdu call, Zimni elections) are held due to fill the vacant seat due to resignation, disqualification or death of a respective person.
By-elections for 28 seats (23 provincial and 5 national) have been delayed numerous times, with most of them now held on being 26 June 2008.
By-elections were held in Punjab, Pakistan on 17 July 2022 to elect 20 members of the Provincial Assembly of the Punjab.
CSS exams are held every year in the entire country.
CSS exams have a reputation for a very low pass percentage.
Canada is represented through its High Commission in Islamabad and consulate in Karachi.
Candidates can choose six subjects of their own choice from many different options.
Cases are usually allotted by administrative orders of district and sessions judges.
Chaudhry Muhammad Ali was the Prime Minister at that time.
Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain was elected the 21st Prime Minister of Pakistan on 29 June 2004 and obtained a vote of confidence from the National Assembly on 30 June 2004.
Cheema's wife was arrested as she came to attend her husband's hearing.
Chief Justice Sajjad Ali Shah was removed from office based on this case.
China controlled the area what belonged to China.
Christian and Hindu leaders complained that they felt excluded from the county's political process, but the policy had strong support from Islamists.
Citizen journalism is emerging as a growing phenomenon and social media is being touted in Pakistan as an important tool that can be used to strengthen democracy.
Citizen journalists upload instances of police officials taking bribes on social networking and video sharing websites like YouTube.
Civil Bureaucracy is a colonial legacy in this part of the world.
Civil Judge Cum in Judicial Magistrates also appointed by the Provincial High Courts, on the recommendation of provincial Public Service Commissions.
Civil servants come from different cadres (e.g.
Civilian, yet socialist-oriented autocratic, rule continued from 1972 to 1977 under Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, but he was deposed by General Zia-Ul-Haq.
Claims of electoral malpractice in the 2018 elections are still hotly debated.
Commenting of the issue of suo motu, Justice K.M.
Commercial trade between Berlin and Islamabad has also been very essential in recent years seeing as Germany is Pakistan's fourth largest trade partner.
Commissioned officers of Pakistan Army, Pakistan Air Force and Pakistan Navy have a quota of 10% in all service groups of the Central Superior Services.
Commissions of 6.25% of the contract, approximately €50 million, were paid out to the lobbying firms in Pakistan and France.
Committee members questioned why dual citizenship was prohibited for judges and parliamentarians but permitted for bureaucrats and called for legislative measures to restrict such practices.
Concerns were also raised about the relaxation of dual nationality rules, citing the example of the chairman of the National Accountability Bureau (NAB).
Consequently, on 10 January 1977, he advised the president to dissolve the National Assembly.
Contrary to Constitution of 1956 and Constitution of 1962, several ideas in the Constitution were new, and guaranteed security to each citizen of Pakistan.
Controversially, in 1999, the party was significantly divided, further affecting Nawaz Sharif's trial in military court.
Corruption in Pakistan involves fraudulent practices carried out by officials and institutions, ranging from petty bribery to high-profile scandals.
Corruption is found to be commonplace in the lower levels of police.
Council elections are held every four years.
Created as an Islamisation measure by the military regime and subsequently protected under the controversial 8th Amendment, its opponents question the very rationale and utility of this institution.
Criticism over the presidency after the presidential election held in 1965 over the centralizing of powers.
Critics argue the institution should be more accountable to the president or the prime minister.
Critics argued that it risked further consolidating military authority and diminishing civilian oversight, potentially upsetting the balance of civil-military relations.
Critics argued that such developments undermined public participation and transparency in national decision-making, contributing to broader political and societal disillusionment.
Critics argued that this discrepancy allowed influential individuals to retain foreign affiliations without accountability.
Critics of the ISI say that it has become a state within a state and not accountable enough.
Critics of the decision also argue that it is inconsistent with the principles laid down in Malik Asad Ali's case where it was held that the Chief Justice was bound by the Court's judgement.
Critics of the decision question the fact that some PCO judges are still working and some non-PCO judges have been sacked.
Currently the promulgated Constitution of Pakistan, in its amended form, stands as the 7th lengthiest constitution of the world with a word count of 56,240 Words.
Currently there are twenty (20) women members out of a total of 104 Senators.
Currently, CSS exams conducted by the Federal Public Service Commission include the following Occupational Groups.
Currently, the Army's combat services consist of active-duty personnel and reservists that operate as members of the National Guard and the paramilitary Civil Armed Forces.
Currently, the Supreme Court is incorporated of Chief Justice of Pakistan, seventeen justices, and two ad-hoc appointments for Shariat Appellate Bench.
Currently, there are a total of 342 seats in the National Assembly.
Currently, there are sixteen judges and nine positions are vacant.There are two ad hoc appointment of the jurists from the Federal Shariat Court to assist with religiosity concerned cases.
Dawn has found that the progress on some promises is still stuck in its initial stages or has been marred with delays.
Decisions are usually announced later in the day, once the judge has had time to peruse the case files after the hearings.
Decisions made the Federal Shariat Court may be appealed to the Appellate Bench, as the Appellate Bench of Supreme Court is the final authority on Islamic interpretation of law in Pakistan.
Denial of recognition of Hindu marriages is often used to intimidate and harass Hindus.
Derived from the British Empire of the former Imperial Civil Service, the civil service came into its modern formation immediately after the establishment of Pakistan as a "Civil Service of Pakistan".
Despite an extensive 1982 trade agreement, the volume of bilateral trade remains comparatively small at US$4.8 million.
Despite assurances from ISI leadership, these claims persisted, leading to an investigation by the Supreme Judicial Council of Pakistan.
Despite being rapidly assembled, the IJI failed to secure a victory in the 1988 elections.
Despite having to undergo strict measures, PTI won the largest vote share and second largest seat share.
Despite her tough rhetoric, Prime Minister Bhutto's own position deteriorated in her native province, Sindh, and lost her support following the death of her younger brother.
Despite its heavy public mandate, serious disagreements appeared within the party.
Despite the PTI's chairman Imran Khan, calling the general elections the most "fairest" in the country's history, the opposition allege that the election was rigged in favour of the PTI.
Despite the challenges, Khan has shown no signs of backing down from his campaign against the military.
Despite the first set of the Constitution giving central power in 1956, the next six prime ministers were dismissed by the governor-general from 1951 till 1957.
Despite the tenure of the Assembly being five years, as prescribed in the Constitution, Mr. Z.A.
Despite this most recent power-stripping, the President remains the ex officio chair of the National Security Council, as per the National Security Act 2004.
Diplomatic relations between Pakistan and the People's Republic of China (PRC) were established on 21 May 1951, shortly after the retreat of the Republic Of China in 1949.
Diplomatic relationship between Pakistan and Brunei are very warm and friendly, this is primarily because both are Muslim countries and member of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation.
Dissenters formed the Pakistan Muslim League, later called Pakistan Muslim League (Quaid-e-Azam) (or PML-Q), which became allies of then president Pervez Musharraf.
District councils and metropolitan corporations are respectively the highest rural and urban tiers of local government in the provinces.
Dogar further stated that during the cabinet meeting, the prime minister stressed that if the army is a respected institution then the PM Office is also a respected one.
Domestic violence in Pakistan is an endemic social problem.
Dr. Fehmida Mirza and Mr. Fasial Karim Kundi were elected Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly respectively on 19 March 2008.
Dr. Nafisa Shah hailing from Pakistan Peoples Party Parliamentarians was the first Secretary of Women's Parliamentary Caucus.
Dr. Noor Jahan Panezai was the only woman member elected as a Senator for the term from 1991 to 1994.
Due to Article 58-2(b), he had the authority to dissolve the National Assembly in his discretion when the Government of Federation cannot be carried according to the provisions of the Constitution.
Due to MQM's militant activities and sectarian killings in Karachi, Nawaz Sharif was forced to end the alliance with MQM for the benefit of the nation.
Due to Pakistan's pro-Palestinian stance, bilateral relations between Pakistan and Israel have continuously wavered over the last few years.
Due to an alleged crackdown, PTI was unable to campaign for the elections.
Due to disturbances in East Pakistan, no National Assembly session was called and the military moved into East Pakistan and executed Operation Searchlight.
Due to religious persecution in Pakistan, Hindus continue to flee to India.
Due to the importance of their respective assignments, there are twelve specific federal secretaries which are considered to be the most vital in the Government of Pakistan.
Due to the speaker being a contestant in the election, the deputy speaker, Dost Muhammad Mazari of the PTI was in charge of the proceedings.
Due to their distinctive service headgear, the Army SSG is colloquially known as the Maroon Berets.
During PTI's public protests, Geo News DSNGs had to remove their stickers to escape vandalism by party workers.
During a military coup a year later, Musharraf arrested Butt, who had been promoted to Chief of Army Staff by Sharif.
During its federal government, the PML-N successfully privatised the major heavy industries under its planned industrial development programme.
During its first few years of existence the British monarch was also Pakistan's head of state, as is still the case in Canada, Australia etc.
During its previous tenure from 1997 to 1999, the PML-N government took a series of measures to control terrorist groups by establishing the Anti Terrorism Courts.
During its time in opposition, the PTI, with the help of popular slogans such as Tabdeeli Arahi Hai (lit.
During its time of formation, the bureaucracy produced Ghulam Ishaq Khan who would go on to become the President of Pakistan.
During most of 1947–1991, the USSR support was given to Republic of India, over which it has fought three wars on Kashmir conflict.
During that movement, Nawaz Sharif travelled through the length and breadth of Pakistan.
During the 1960s, Pakistan's relations with and neighbouring Afghanistan have also been extremely difficult due to the latter's contest over the Durand Line.
During the 1985 general election, a new PML-N emerged on the country's political scene.
During the 2002 general elections, party chairman Imran Khan won one seat from Mianwali.
During the 2010 Pakistan floods, Trinidad Congress of the People party donated US$33,000 worth of aid to Pakistan flood victims.
During the 2017 intra-party elections, 2.7 million party workers cast their votes in a two-day process for party positions.
During the Cold War, the ISI and the CIA worked together to send spy planes over the Soviet Union.
During the Yom Kippur War of 1973 (usually referred to as the Ramadan war in Pakistan) several Pakistani pilots assisted the Syrian air force.
During the campaign, he collectively visited over 25 towns and cities, addressing dozens of rallies and corner meetings.
During this time, Supreme Court justices were described as notoriously conservative and only a few moderates, appointed by Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto as his role as President in 1971–73.
During this time, the PML-N was the largest conservative party, with its members occupying 137 seats out of 207, roughly 66.2%.
ECP officials denied the accusations classing then as unfounded and motivated by self-promotion, adding that a divisional commissioner had no direct role in the electoral process.
Each Assembly elects a Chief Minister, who then selects the ministers of his or her cabinet.
Each Cabinet member must be a member of Parliament (MP).
Each National Assembly is formed for a five-year term, commencing from the date of the first sitting, after which it is automatically dissolved.
Each Union Council has a secretariat, which is headed by a Secretary.
Each battalion in the Pakistan Army Special Forces is specifically trained for a specific type of operation, and each battalion is a specialist in their nature of conducting the operation.
Each elector casts a different number of votes.
Each ministry/division has its Secretary to oversee and enforce the public policy matters.
Each of the four provinces is represented by 23 senators regardless of population, while the Islamabad Capital Territory is represented by four senators, all of whom serve staggered six-year terms.
Each of the provincial legislatures has an equal number of votes to each other, based on the number of members of the smallest legislature, which is the Balochistan Assembly (65 seats).
Each of these services had its own cadre and composition rules, specifying the total cadre strength in terms of its number of positions.
Each province has a Provincial Assembly, a directly elected legislature.
Elahi was the former president of the Punjab Division of the PML(Q).
Elected for a five-year term by an Electoral College consisting of members of the Senate and National Assembly and members of the provincial assemblies, the president is eligible for re-election.
Elected in 1947, the first Constituent Assembly drafted and adopted its first constitution in 1956.
Election Commission of Pakistan is hosting zimni elections since It was founded.
Election results also showed liberals, the MQM, emerging as the third major party with 15 seats.
Elections for minority seats are held on the basis of separate electorates at the same time as the polls for Muslim seats during the general elections.
Elections in Pakistan are conducted under the supervision of Election Commission of Pakistan.
Elections in Pakistan have been prone to irregularities including vote rigging, use of threats and coercion, and discrimination between Muslims and non-Muslims.
Elections in Pakistan take place every five years by universal adult suffrage.
Embezzlement and kickbacks: misappropriation of public funds, especially in the public works, health, and education sectors.
Equal provincial membership in the Senate, thus, balances the provincial inequality in the National Assembly.
Even as of today, the Pakistan Army's recruiters struggle to enlist citizens and their selfless commitment to the military from the urban areas (i.e.
Even before the elections, social media served as an effective tool to hold the nation's to-be-leaders "accountable" for various issues like corruption and education.
Even once released by the courts, they were immediately re-arrested in other cases; Khan has been rearrested six times, while Afridi, and Rashid have been rearrested twice.
Even though the Civil Services of Pakistan have been still running on the pattern set out by British Raj (no major change has been performed), the Musharraf government started a major reform process.
Ever since its establishment in 1980, the Federal Shariat Court of Pakistan has been the subject of criticism and controversy in society.
Exchange of high-level visits during the last 10 years give credence to the fact that Pakistan and Turkmenistan have laid foundation of mutually beneficial relations, friendship and understanding.
Executive authority is vested in the prime minister-led and appointed cabinet, with the president of Pakistan serving as the nominal head of executive and state.
Executive power is vested with the national cabinet which is headed by Prime Minister of Pakistan (Shehbaz Sharif since 3 March 2024), who works with the bicameral parliament and the judiciary.
Extremist groups have persecuted non-Muslims and used some laws as the legal basis for doing so.
Extremist organizations serving as proxies of the government of Pakistan are attacking Afghan troops and civilians as well as US soldiers.
Fasih Jugu, who was accused of assassination, was tortured to death by law enforcement officers.
Fatima Jinnah's Combined Opposition Party (COP) only secured 10 seats whereas the NDF won 5 seats in East Pakistan and 1 in West Pakistan.
Fazal Ilahi Chaudhry became president in 1973 with PPP's support in four provinces.
Finally, for the first time in the history of Pakistan, local body elections were held on December 7, 2013.
Finally, in 1990, President Ghulam Ishaq Khan charged the PPP government with corruption and lack of governance and dismissed the National Assembly and the first Bhutto government.
Finally, the 1999 coup d'état ended the PML-N's government.
Finally, the joint work led to the promulgation of the first set of the constitution on 23 March 1956—a day when Pakistan celebrates its Republic Day over the adoption of the constitution.
Finding gain in such enterprises, the elite class amongst politicians, technocrats, bureaucrats and businessmen usually capitalise in this venture.
First came independent members and the Jamhoori Watan Party, followed by the Balochistan Awami Party (BAP) and defectors from the Pakistan Muslim League (Q) (PML-Q).
First convened in 1973, the Senate's composition and powers are established by the Article 59 of the Constitution of Pakistan.
First, the Supreme Court validated the Governor-General's actions in case 1 but soon considered such powers as Ultra vires in case 2 and case 3.
Five of these MPAs were elected on reserved seats (3 for women and two for minorities) and new PTI MPAs were notified on these seats on 7 July.
Flag of Pakistan is placed over the black embroidered formation sign on the left arm and class course insignias are put up for the Goldish uniform, decorations and awards and the ranks.
Following a contempt of court case, the Supreme Court permanently disqualified Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gillani.
Following his arrest, Khan's supporters stormed the army headquarters in Rawalpindi and set fire to the house of a senior general.
Following its rise to national government in Pakistan, the PTI backed off from certain commitments in its manifesto what was criticised by its opponents as U-turns.
Following the 1958 coup d'etat, the office of prime minister was abolished, leaving the Presidency as the most powerful office in the country.
Following the 2018 general elections, MNA Munaza Hasan from Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf became the third Secretary of the caucus.
Following the adoption of a constitution in India in 1950, Pakistan's lawmakers were incentified to work on their constitution.
Following the arrest of Imran Khan on 9 May 2023, the supporters and workers of PTI allegedly targeted Pakistan Army's installations.
Following the decision, the official website of the Supreme Court was hacked by an unknown person.
Following the election, Pervez Musharraf acknowledged that the process had been free and fair.
Following the elections, Imran Khan was elected as Prime Minister, receiving 176 votes against Shehbaz Sharif's 96 votes.
Following the elections, six major parties including PML-N claimed there had been large-scale vote rigging and administrative malpractices.
Following the foundations laid in the Constitution, the federal government promulgated The Civil Servants Act, 1973 and each province enacted its own Civil Servants Acts.
Following the general election held in May 2013, Tariq Fatimi and NSA Sartaj Aziz were designated as advisers to the Prime Minister on foreign and strategic policies.
Following the new elections held in 1993, Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto established a strong government after appointing loyalist Farooq Leghari to the presidency.
Following this, Nawaz Sharif was elected as prime minister, returning to the post for the third time after a fourteen-year absence, in a democratic transition.
For civilians, recruitment is advertised and handled by both the Federal Public Services Commission (FPSC); they are considered employees of the Ministry of Defence.
For example, according to Mohammad Sohail, shares at the Pakistan Stock Exchange went down in October 2021 over concerns regarding the appointment of the ISI chief.
For instance, 60 seats for women are reserved in the National Assembly under Article 51 and 17 seats are reserved in the Senate of Pakistan under Article 59.
For the first time in the history of the country, Sharif allowed foreign money exchange to be transacted through private money changers.
For this, the government undertook affirmative measures through introducing several provisions in the Constitution and laws of Pakistan.
Forced and coerced conversions of religious minorities to Islam occurred at the hands of societal actors.
Former NDS head Asadullah Khalid posted a video belonging to TTP on his Twitter account where he claimed that the Badaber Camp attack was tit for tat.
Former NDS head, Asadullah Khalid, posted a video belonging to TTP on his Twitter account where he claimed that Badaber Camp attack was tit for tat.
Former Pakistani General Ziauddin Butt (a.k.a.
Former Speaker National Assembly of Pakistan Dr. Fehmida Mirza is the patron in-chief of the caucus.
Freedom House rated Pakistan as "Not Free" in its report of 2013 and gave it a score of 64 (on a scale of 0–100, with 0 being most free and 100 being least free).
Frequently, no single party holds a majority, and therefore parties must form alliances during or after elections, with coalition governments forming out of negotiations between parties.
From 1947 to 1958 as many as seven Prime Ministers of Pakistan either resigned or were ousted.
From 1947 to 1971, the army service uniform of the Pakistan Army closely resembled to the army uniform of the British Army, but the uniform changed in preference of Sherwani.
From 1947 until 1956, the governor-general of Pakistan acted for the head of state: King George VI (until 1952) and Queen Elizabeth II (from 1952).
From 1972 onward, the State Bank auditorium in Islamabad functioned as the National Assembly of Pakistan.
From 1987 to 2007, "as many as 4,000 people are estimated to have died in sectarian fighting in Pakistan", 300 being killed in 2006.
From 1988 to 1993, the power struggle between the prime minister and presidency continued with the president dismissing the National Assembly on three different occasions.
From 1999 to 2007, the PTI supported the presidency of General Pervez Musharraf.
From 2013 to 2018, PTI served as the largest opposition party with 30 seats and had PTI leader Mehmood-ur-Rasheed as opposition leader.
From 2018 to 2022 PTI served as the largest and ruling party in Punjab, with Usman Buzdar as Chief Minister of Punjab.
From 2024 to the present PTI is serving as the opposition party in the Punjab Assembly.
From Afghanistan, those militants continue to launch attacks on Pakistan military posts located near the border.
From the 1950s to 2000s, several coups were staged that overthrew democratic regimes.
From the outset, the institutional set up in the territory was designed to ensure Pakistan's control of the area's affairs.
From the resignation of President Rafiq Tarar in 2001, to his own resignation in 2008, Musharraf was the President of Pakistan.
Further exacerbating the situation was the dislike between Shia leader Imam Khomeini and General Zia ul-Haq.
Further factors for failing standards in state-run institutions include lack of funding, non-utilisation by elite classes, appointments of under-qualified faculty.
Furthermore, 32% of respondents reported paying bribes to have their tax assessment lowered, and nearly 14% reported receiving fictitious tax assessments until a bribe was paid.
Furthermore, candidates found to have opposed Pakistan's ideology or worked against the integrity of the country, after its establishment in 1947, are disqualified.
Furthermore, courts suffer from lack of funds, outside intervention, and deep case backlogs that lead to long trial delays and lengthy pretrial detentions.
Furthermore, he blamed the Chief Justice and the ECP's Chief Commissioner as primarily responsible for the ongoing events and that they should be prosecuted.
Furthermore, in an effort to force refugees back to the areas they have fled (in order to create a sense of normalcy), the government has cut off power and water supply to the IDP camps.
Furthermore, the presidential powers have significantly declined with Pakistan's government reversed to a parliamentary democratic republic.
Furthermore, the social acceptance of many of these problems hinders their eradication.
Future appointments will be made in the same manner as those to the Supreme Court.
GI Khan was candidate of PPP in return of supporting Benazir Bhutto in 1988.
General Ayub Khan appointed a Constitution Commission to draft another part of the constitution under Chief Justice Muhammad Shahabuddin.
General Ayub Khan was the president from 1958 to 1969, and General Yahya Khan from 1969 to 1971, Chief Justice Habib Khan Marvath elected first Chairman Senate of Pakistan.
General Zia was killed in a plane crash in 1988, after which Benazir Bhutto, daughter of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, was elected as the Prime Minister of Pakistan.
General election were held in Pakistan on Wednesday, 25 July 2018 to elect the members of 15th National Assembly and the four Provincial Assemblies.
General elections under the new Constitution were held on 28 March 1962 and elections to the special seats reserved for women were held on 29 May 1962.
General elections were held in October 2002.
General elections were later held for the National and Provincial Assemblies on 25 February 1985, on non-party basis.
Generally, a copy of the summon is also sent to the Members at their home addresses.
Geographically Tajikistan is the nearest Central Asian State to Pakistan – fourteen kilometres between two countries.
Germany and Pakistan enjoy closely cordial relations.
Germany has taken large measures to aid the South Asian country in its economic and governmental hardship.
Ghazi stated that a meeting was eventually held between the prime minister and the chief of army staff, and a press conference was held to announce the decision to withdraw the tweet.
Gillani became Pakistan's first Prime Minister to be convicted while holding office and was later sentenced and disqualified.
Gillani is prudently criticised for a prolonged era of stagflation, in which fundamental economic problems were ignored, the government was mismanaged and corruption was endemic.
Given the very few women's shelters in the country, victims have limited ability to escape from violent situations.
Government ministers met in 2005 to explore potential trade opportunities.
Governments are defeated; Prime Ministers come and go; Ministers come and go; but you stay on, and therefore, there is a very great responsibility placed on your shoulders ...
Governor of Punjab Omar Sarfaraz Cheema refused to administer the oath to newly elected Chief Minister Hamza Shahbaz.
Greece established an embassy in Islamabad in 1987.
Guyana along with Suriname is one of the only 2 member states of the OIC in the Americas.
Hashmi was removed from the party's presidency after his controversial remarks towards the country's armed forces.
He addressed the Joint Session of the Parliament on 20 September 2008.
He alleged that the Inter-Services Intelligence were behind the attack.
He also announced 500 new scholarships for students in Pakistan to study in Australia.
He also announced that he would pull Pakistan out of the US-led war on terror and bring peace in the Pashtun tribal belt.
He also embarked on a train march from Lahore to Peshawar as part of his campaign to oust Benazir.
He also noted that the army chief and the prime minister agreed on following correct procedures of appointment according to the Constitution.
He also promised to eliminate the post of Patwari and establish a computerised and professional land record system.
He appointed General Muhammad Ayub Khan, Commander-in-Chief of the Army, as the Chief Martial Law Administrator.
He can run provincial government directly.
He can use emergency powers on advice of Prime Minister and cabinet.
He challenged PML-N President Nawaz Sharif to a live debate, a challenge which PML-N was quick to decline.
He conceded the defeat of the PML (Q) and pledged to work with the new Parliament.
He described the central building, which houses the director general's office on the top floor, as "a modern structure with a round, echoing lobby".
He enjoys the confidence of the majority of the members of the National Assembly.
He further stated that the establishment, by facilitating electoral victories for the PML-N and PPP, had effectively reduced them to "appendages" within the broader hybrid framework.
He had the constitutional authority to choose and appoint the Prime Minister in his discretion who got majority votes from the National Assembly.
He has previously criticised America's "war on terror".
He is determined to reduce the military's influence in Pakistani politics, and he believes that this is the only way to ensure that the country becomes more democratic.
He later issued a Legal Framework Order (LFO), under which the first ever general elections were held on 7 December 1970.
He promised to hold accountable the killers behind the assassination of Benazir Bhutto and stated that the local government system is important for the prosperity of Pakistan.
He received vote of confidence on 24 March 1985.
He reportedly suspended the Constitution of Pakistan of 1956 on 7 October 1958, and appointed Commander-in-Chief of the Pakistan Army General Ayub Khan as the first Chief Martial Law Administrator.
He stated, 'You can't lead a revolution from behind bulletproof glass,' and claimed that he had conquered the fear of dying 17 years ago.
He was accused of operating a covert terror network within Balochistan.
He was subsequently sentenced to death by a military court in what India called would be "premediated murder".
He won by majority 174 votes in the National Assembly of Pakistan.
He won by majority in the National Assembly of Pakistan against Omar Ayub Khan in a disputed elections.
Hence, from 14 August 1947 to 1 March 1956, the Government of India Act 1935 was retained as the Constitution of Pakistan.
Her changes were reversed by the Nawaz Sharif administration which was backed by religious political parties.
Her government was followed by that of Nawaz Sharif, and the two leaders alternated until the military coup by General Pervez Musharraf in 1999.
High courts have original and appellate jurisdiction.
Hindu homes and temples were also attacked in Quetta.
Hindu women have been known to be victims of kidnapping and forced conversion to Islam.
Hindus have spoken of vulnerability to kidnapping and forced conversions.
His TV channel Geo Tv was shut down by the government for 15 days for airing reports that the ISI may have carried out the attacks.
His successor, Syed Shahid Hamid is said to have supported Ayub Khan's rise to power.
His tribunal expelled Secretary-General Jahangir Tareen, PTI's KPK Chief Minister Pervez Khattak, and senior leader Nadir Laghari for manipulating intra-party polls.
His workers would stay in Islamabad as required, for their only demand would be to give a date for clean and transparent general elections and to dissolve assemblies.
Honour killings are supposed to be prosecuted as ordinary murder, but in practice, police and prosecutors often ignore it.
However a judicial magistrate having special powers under section 30 of Code of Criminal Procedure can award all punishments except capital punishment.
However it states that a presidential candidate must be a Muslim and not less than 45 years of age.
However these clauses are not always respected in practice.
However, Afghanistan has admitted to providing support for terrorist groups such as Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP).
However, Imran Khan and his party denied their involvement in the violence and accused secret agencies of framing the party for anti-army violence.
However, India responded that he was an ex - Indian Navy serviceman, and had been abducted by Pakistan from Iran and wrongfully detained for three weeks without informing the Indian consulate.
However, Khan's government was later praised for leading the country's pandemic recovery in its later stages.
However, PTI boycotted this election in protest against electoral manipulation by Pervez Musharraf.
However, PTI failed to secure a majority in Punjab and made limited gains in Sindh or Baluchistan.
However, Pakistan also masterminded an attack on the Afghan city of Jalalabad during the Afghan Civil War to establish an Islamic government there.
However, Pakistan and China sorted their border lines Trans-Karakoram Tract professionally.
However, a judicial probe found these allegations to be unsubstantiated.
However, a majority of Pakistan's Heads of State and Heads of Government have been elected civilian leaders.
However, after the orders are authorized the Corps in both nation's will take between 24 and 72 hours to completely mobilize their combat assets.
However, almost all cases are brought to the Supreme Court on appeal, making the cases considered based on original jurisdiction rarely.
However, as an aftermath of the Fall of Dhaka in 1971, a two-party system was developed between the People's Party and Muslim League.
However, as per the constitution of the PTI that was approved on 1 August 2022 by Imran Khan and the party's National Council, the position of President does not exist in the structure of the party.
However, before it could accomplish the task of framing the constitution, it was dissolved in October 1954.
However, before long, Nawaz Sharif announced his support for and leadership of the Lawyers' Movement to restore the suspended famed Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry in 2008.
However, critics point out that none of the 46 housing schemes directly built by the armed forces cater to ordinary soldiers, civilian officers or other army personnel.
However, due to the Opposition's boycott, she never took oath as a member.
However, following the Supreme Court's judgement in the Al-Jehad Trust case, the government's role in judicial appointments was curtailed.
However, for the election of reserved seats for women in the Zila Council, proportionately divided among Tehsils or Towns, all members of the Union Councils in a Tehsil or Town shall be elected.
However, in 2024, strength of Supreme Court was increased to 25 judges.
However, in April 2022, a no-confidence motion against Khan removed him and his PTI government from office at the federal level.
However, in practice, Sharia Law takes precedence over Pakistani law.
However, in the absence of any law to control the Political Parties and the problem of floor crossing, political instability perpetually ensued.
However, it also acknowledged that some reforms to the judicial system were needed to enhance efficiency and accountability.
However, it is around 19 percent in current legislative assemblies, and no woman has representation in the cabinets of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan.
However, it remains to be seen if any positive effects will be derived from this.
However, just before the draft could be placed in the house for approval, the Assembly was dissolved by the then Governor General Ghulam Muhammad on 24 October 1954.
However, many senior leaders of the PTI remain in police custody.
However, most neutral assessments agree that India had the upper hand over Pakistan when ceasefire was declared, but the propaganda in Pakistan about the war continued in favor of Pakistan Army.
However, no major sources from the time reported on such an incident, and there is no mention of "Captain Lutz" in Israel's Ministry of Defense's record of Israel's casualties of war.
However, past governments have been dismissed for corruption by the President's invocation of Article 58 of the Constitution.
However, she modified the laws to make them more moderate.
However, some militants managed to flee to Afghanistan.
However, the Afghan Taliban at night came in a car and took Khadir along with them to Afghanistan.
However, the Court found it legal in its jurisdiction in thrice cases when it validated the actions under the impression of "doctrine of necessity".
However, the Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) outright rejected such reports and stated that the elections were conducted fair and free.
However, the corruption charges and the controversial death of Murtaza Bhutto in 1996 resulted in President Farooq Leghari dismissing Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto.
However, the final death blow to the ruling coalition was the defection of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement – Pakistan.
However, the ministry's environmental policies remain a subject of ongoing controversy, often criticised for ignoring the health of the environment despite the party's declarations.
However, the number of Federal Ministers and Ministers of State who are members of Senate, shall not at any time, exceed one fourth of the numbers of Federal Ministers.
However, the president went on leave due to illness.
However, the proceedings have been used in 2008 in an attempt to impeach former president Pervez Musharraf who tendered the resignation after the proceedings above were used.
However, the relations became cordinal in recent years and the Russian Army has been training in Pakistan.
However, the secretary assembly refused to comply with his orders, and a no-confidence motion was moved against him by his own party.
However, the tensions continued, and in April 2022, Khan was ousted from power in a no-confidence motion.
However, the term of the first group of the Senators, who shall retire after completion of first 3 years of the Senate, is determined by drawing of lots by the Chief Election Commissioner.
However, the term of the first group of the senators, who shall retire after completion of first 3 years of the Senate, is determined by drawing of lots by the Chief Election Commission.
However, there is a bone of contention between the two, because of the latter's close relations with, India.
However, there was no representation of women in the Second Constituent Assembly, which had 72 members serving from 1955 to 1958.
However, these good relations haven't been around very long.
However, they controversially did not apply the judgement to themselves.
However, with escalating border tensions leading to the 1962 Sino-Indian war, the PRC and Pakistan formed an alliance and India got badly beaten by China.
However, with the U.S. troops withdrawal, its role in serving as a conduit for the U.S. in Afghanistan has ended.
Hundreds of potential marchers were arrested in an alleged crackdown by the new Government of Pakistan.
ISI is also reportedly engaged in supporting Khalistani Separatism in India.
If a law is found to be 'repugnant', the Court notifies the relevant government, specifying the reasons for its decision.
If a vote of no confidence is passed against the government, then the government collapses and a new one must be formed.
If any part of the law is declared to be against Islamic law, the government is required to take the necessary steps to amend such law appropriately.
If dissolved, new elections are conducted for the Assembly.
If it is not a money bill, the President may return it to the Majlis-e-Shoora with a message requesting that the bill be reconsidered and an amendment specified in the message be considered.
If the Federal Government proclaims State of Emergency in any province, the power to legislate about that province is vested in the Parliament.
If the House passes a bill through a majority vote, it shall be transmitted to the other place.
If the National Assembly is so requisitioned, it must be summoned within 14 days.
If the bill is passed in the joint sitting, with or without amendments, by the votes of majority of the members of the two houses, it shall be presented to the president for assent.
If the bill is passed in the joint sitting, with or without amendments, by the votes of the majority of the members of the two houses, it shall be presented to the President for assent.
If the bill is presented to the President for assent, he shall assent to the bill in not later than ten days.
If the bill is presented to the president for assent, he shall assent to the bill in not later than ten days.
If the federal government proclaims a state of emergency in any province, the power to legislate about that province is vested in the Parliament.
If the house passed the bill through majority vote, it shall be transmitted to the other house.
If the other house passes it without amendment, it shall be presented to the President for assent.
If the other house passes it without amendment, it shall be presented to the president for assent.
If the resolution is passed by majority of the total membership of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister immediately ceases to hold the office.
If the vote of no confidence is passed by the National Assembly by a simple majority, the prime minister ceases to retain the office.
If there is a policy failure or lapse on the part of the government, all the members of the cabinet are jointly responsible.
If there is any misunderstanding or disagreement between the President and the Prime Minister, the President may use these powers to dismiss the Prime Minister and dissolve National Assembly.
Imran Farooq (MQM second in command at that time) was forced to flee Pakistan and took political asylum in the UK.
Imran Khan also pledged to resign should any terrorism take place from Pakistani soil following these reforms.
Imran Khan and PTI made several key appointments and nominations for national and provincial level public office holders as the winning party.
Imran Khan and Shah Mehmood Qureshi were elected on 20 March 2013.
Imran Khan ascended to leadership in 2018 with the backing of the military, but was subsequently removed from power in 2022 after losing that support.
Imran Khan asked people to reach the Srinagar Highway in Islamabad to support his demands for early elections.
Imran Khan gave a six-day ultimatum to the government to declare elections and dissolve assemblies.
Imran Khan nominated him for the position of the new chairman of the PTI.
Imran Khan responded to the atrocities by accepting the demands of the attackers which infuriated the Pakistani victims.
Imran Khan stood in seven constituencies across Pakistan but did not secure a majority in any.
Imran Khan was arrested by the police from Islamabad High Court (IHC) on 9 May 2023, but was later released by Supreme Court two days later.
Imran Khan was arrested due to the case, and Pakistani court rejected a petition by PTI.
Imran Khan was banned from contesting the 2024 general election.
Imran Khan was jailed for the duration of the election.
Imran Khan was re-elected chairman by a large margin.
Imran Khan, chairman of the PTI, proceeded to form a coalition government, announcing his cabinet shortly after the elections.
Imran Khan, the leader of PTI claimed "having relations with US, Russia and China is in Pakistan's interest" and Pakistan's "future is tied up with Russia".
Imran announced a movement for Haqeeqi Azadi, translated ‘Real Freedom’.
In 18th Amendment, judges appointments are proposed by a Parliamentary Commission.
In 1947 after gaining independence from the United Kingdom, Pakistan still had close ties with the country.
In 1947, the Pakistan Army's war strategists developed a combat doctrine which was called "The Riposte", which featured a strategy of "offensive-defense".
In 1950, Prime Minister Liaquat Ali Khan authored the first annexe that would pave a path to the drafting of the Constitution.
In 1955, Pakistan joined the CENTO and the SEATO alliances.
In 1955, an accord was signed between Nawab Sadeq Mohammad Khan V and Lt Gen Ghulam Muhammad Malik which made the state of Bahawalpur a part of the province of West Pakistan.
In 1956, the 1st Armored Division in Multan was established, followed by the Special Forces in Cherat under the supervision of the U.S Army's Special Forces.
In 1956, the first Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan was adopted in Karachi at the same Sindh Assembly building which also passed as the Parliament of Pakistan.
In 1957, the I Corps was established and headquarter was located in Punjab.
In 1958, Mirza imposed the martial law under its enforcer General, Ayub Khan, but was also dismissed the same year.
In 1960, Justice Alvin Robert Cornelius became the first Christian to be served as Chief Justice, while George Constantine also served in the Court.
In 1960, President Ayub Khan appointed Justice Alvin Robert Cornelius who took much liberal approach in his jurisprudence when deciding cases on fundamental rights against the executive overreach.
In 1962, the second set of the Constitution completely dissolved the office of prime minister as all powers were transferred to the president of Pakistan.
In 1966, the IV Corps was formed and its headquarter was established, and permanently stationed in Lahore, Punjab in Pakistan.
In 1968, the Supreme Court was greatly divided when Chief Justice Hamoodur Rahman presided the case hearings after President Yahya Khan declared martial law and suspended the writ of the constitution.
In 1971, Pakistan withdrew itself from the two alliances in a vision of exercising an independent foreign policy.
In 1971, it was re-organized and reestablished under "Chapter I: Part-XII, Article 240" of the Constitution of Pakistan which gave it foundation and constitutional status.
In 1971, the II Corps was established and headquartered in Multan, driven towards defending the mass incursion from the Indian Army.
In 1973, Fazal Ilahi Chaudhry became the first president from the PPP in an indirect polling.
In 1973, the new Constitution established Parliamentary democracy and reduced president's role to a ceremonial one.
In 1973, the new Constitution established Parliamentary democracy and reduced the president's role to a ceremonial one.
In 1974, Bhutto cancelled the fourth five-year plans bypassing the recommendations of the Planning Commission, focusing entirely on broadening government control over private business enterprises.
In 1974, Pakistan became a critical entity in the militarization of the OIC and has historically maintained friendly relations with all the Arab and Muslim countries under the banner of OIC.
In 1977, the Supreme Court had again legalised the martial law in the light of "doctrine of necessity" and denied taking petitions to review its decision.
In 1985, ten (10) seats were increased to twenty (20) whereas, the reserved seats for women were increased to sixty (60) in 2002 during the era of General Pervaiz Musharraf.
In 1988, the general elections were held again which marked the PPP coming in power but dismissed in two years following the lawlessness situation in the country.
In 1989, Pakistan rejoined, despite Pakistan's suspension from the Commonwealth of Nations between 1999 and 2008.
In 1990, the general elections saw the right-wing alliance forming the government but dismissed in 1993 after the alliance collapsed.
In 1991, the PML-N's government established the National Highway Authority followed by inaugurating the M2 Motorways in 1997.
In 1993, Major-General Julian Peter was the first Christian to be appointed at the command position while Hercharn Singh became the first Sikh to be commissioned in the army.
In 1993, the alliance dissolved and the party assumed its current shape, branding itself as the "Nawaz" faction of the Pakistan Muslim League, in contrast to the "Junejo" faction.
In 1997 general election, Nawaz Sharif called for fresh presidential elections and nominated Rafiq Tarar for the presidency.
In 1997, Chief Justice S.A. Shah found Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of contempt of court but the order itself was voided by the Supreme Judicial Council.
In 1997, President Farooq Leghari could not overcome the heavy mandate bestowed on Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif by the public in 1997.
In 1997, environmental PSAs were regularly paid for by the government to enhance and promote environmental awareness among the public.
In 1997, the party secured its win with an overwhelming mandate, with only a small opposition.
In 1998, the law and order situation came under the PML-N's control and economic recovery was also secured.
In 1999 martial law against Sharif, Musharraf appointed himself President in 2001.
In 1999, the party's government successfully signed the Lahore Declaration with India.
In 2001, citizens participated in general elections, but those elections were criticized as deeply flawed by domestic and international observers.
In 2001, the Muslim League (Nawaz) formally adopted the name of Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N), also known as PML(N).
In 2001, the party was further divided by factionalism.
In 2001–2002, there were additional amendments made that further empowers the Supreme Court and its institutional powers to struck any federal authority found on the charges of contempt of court.
In 2002, it was alleged that when the Egyptian investigators tracked down Al-Qaeda member Ahmed Said Khadr in Pakistan, the Egyptian authorities informed Pakistani authorities of his location.
In 2004, Pakistan became a Major non-NATO ally of the United States.
In 2004, he secured his reappointment for the presidency; though the opposition and religious alliance boycotted the elections.
In 2004–2006, the military observers from the army were deployed to guide the Sri Lankan army to end the civil war with the Tamil fighters.
In 2005 Syria and Pakistan agreed on mutual cooperation in the fields of science and technology.
In 2005, 32 Hindus were killed by firing from the government side near Nawab Akbar Bugti's residence during bloody clashes between Bugti tribesmen and paramilitary forces in Balochistan.
In 2005, a corruption case was filed in the National Accountability Bureau (NAB) against then managing director Syed Muhammad Amjad who was involved in the corruption.
In 2006 a commercial agreement was celebrated between Pakistan and Mercosur (a trade bloc of which Uruguay is part).
In 2006, army recruiters began recruiting Hindus into the army and people of all faith or no faith can be promoted to any rank or commanding position in the army.
In 2006, the party signed a cooperative declaration with its rival Pakistan People's Party to outline and promote a new democratic culture in the country.
In 2007, Musharraf again restored his appointment after the opposition parties also boycotted the elections.
In 2008, Asif Ali Zardari was elected president.
In 2008, the Pakistani cabinet authorized negotiations for the establishment of a Joint Economic Commission, that was finalized in 2009.
In 2010, The Supreme Court of Pakistan overturned Nawaz' conviction, making him eligible to run for power again.
In 2010, a corruption scandal was unearthed that involved two Pakistan Army generals, (Maj Gen Khalid Zaheer Akhtar and Lt Gen Muhammad Afzal), and caused a loss of Rs.
In 2010, the Parliament unanimously and with a large majority, passed the eighteenth amendment of the constitution.
In 2010, the XVIII Amendment to the Constitution of Pakistan was passed to reverse the XVII amendment; it returned the country to being a parliamentary democratic republic.
In 2011, Dr Syed Abdul Aziz, director of Hamdard Institute of Education and Social Sciences declared education as one of the most corrupt sectors in Pakistan.
In 2011, the PML-N established a branch in Kashmir Province to participate in Kashmir's general elections.
In 2012, the Supreme Court of Pakistan recognized substantial evidence of rigging in the 1990 elections.
In 2013 alone more than 400 Shia have been killed in targeted attacks that took place across Pakistan.
In 2013, after the change in the federal government, MNA Shaista Pervaiz Malik from Pakistan Muslim League Nawaz became the Secretary of Women's Parliamentary Caucus.
In 2013, the Supreme Court took suo motu actions against populist Imran Khan of criticising against the judgement of the Supreme Court's senior judges in regards to the elections.
In 2013, the United States conducted a raid on an Afghan convoy that was taking Latif Mehsud to Kabul.
In 2013, the party returned to power with Sharif elected as the prime minister for an unprecedented third term following the general elections, with Sharif.
In 2015, both of them were convicted by the military court of Pakistan.
In 2016, basic membership of Mufti Abdul Qawi was suspended and later he was expelled after a controversy erupted over selfies he took with the model Qandeel Baloch.
In 2016-17, Pakistan economy suffered $5.47 billion and $2.07 billion on 2017-18.
In 2017 the Constitution (Twenty-seventh Amendment) Act, 2017 was proposed to the Constitution of Pakistan.
In 2017, Afghanistan's Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah admitted that Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has a foothold in Afghanistan.
In 2017, General Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, accused the ISI of having ties to terror groups.
In 2017, Kulbhushan Jadhav, an Indian national was arrested in March 2016 by Pakistani authorities and charged with espionage and sabotage.
In 2017, The Lahore High Court lifted the ban, claiming that the world had become a global village and asked how long will unreasonable restrictions be imposed.
In 2018, Pakistani newspaper Dawn News reported that the Pakistani economy suffered a total loss of $126.79 billion since 2001 due to the war on terror.
In 2018, party membership of Hamid Khan was suspended and a show cause notice was issued for "defaming and maligning" the party.
In 2019, Ayman al-Zawahari labelled ISI and the Pakistani military a "puppet" of the United States in a video message.
In 2019, a woman journalist was allegedly murdered by her husband - who was also a journalist - because she refused to quit her job.
In 2019, the Prime Minister has constituted an Institutional Reforms cell (IRC) under the Cabinet Division.
In 2019, the United States Department of Defense claimed that about 3,000 to 5,000 terrorists belonging to TTP are in Afghanistan.
In 2020, Nigar Johar became the first female Lieutenant General in the army, she was from the Pakistan Army Medical Corps.
In 2020, a 15-year-old Hindu girl was kidnapped, forcibly converted and married to a Muslim man.
In 2020, the passing percentage was only 1.962.
In 2021, only 364 (2.11%) of the 17,240 participants cleared the multi-staged exam.
In 2022, Freedom House rated Pakistan’s human rights at 37 out of 100 (partly free).
In 2022, the passing percentage decreased to 1.85%.
In 2023 the National Assembly Secretariat would constitute the Pasban-e-Aman (پاسبان امان) Force for the security of the Parliament House.
In 2023, political chaos, economic crisis and security threats tested Pakistan’s fragile state as the military sought to retain control.
In 2023, the Khan-led PTI dissolved two of its provincial assemblies (Punjab and KP), to attempt to cause early elections in 60% of the country due on 30 April 2023 and 28 May 2023, respectively.
In 2023, the number of unresolved cases before the Supreme Court increased by 7 percent.
In 2024, the Twenty-Sixth Constitutional Amendment Act was enacted on 21 October, introducing landmark reforms to Pakistan's judicial system, with a focus on the Supreme Court and High Courts.
In 2025, the Twenty-Seventh Amendment Bill focused mostly on the military structure and the civil-military relations.
In April 1954, the general elections were held for the East Pakistan Legislative Assembly, in which the Pakistan Muslim League lost to the pan-Bengali nationalist United Front alliance.
In April 2018 former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif was given a lifetime ban on political activities.
In Dec 2006, Albanian Deputy Foreign Minister Mr. Anton Gurakqui visited Pakistan to hold bilateral consultation with Pakistani political leadership.
In December 1970, nationwide general elections were held simultaneously for both the national and five provincial assemblies.
In December 1971, the 33rd infantry division was established from the army reserves of the II Corps, followed by raising the 37th Infantry Division.
In December 2024, Salman Ahmad, a long-term member of the party, was expelled for describing Bushra Bibi as "corrupt and greedy".
In February 2008, an 11-member Pakistan Trade Delegation visited Lusaka for exploring bilateral trade cooperation.
In February 2012, Rinkle, Lata, and Asha Kumari were allegedly forced to convert from Hinduism to Islam.
In February 2025, Imran Khan ordered the expulsion of lawmaker Sher Afzal Marwat for repeated breaches of party discipline.
In India it was implemented in some regions and not others; and then allowed to lie fallow.
In January 2014, a policeman standing guard outside a Hindu temple at Peshawar was gunned down.
In January 2022, Ayesha Malik was sworn in as the first female Supreme Court judge.
In January 2025 former Prime Minister Imran Khan was sentenced to 14 years in prison and fined for leaking state secrets.
In July 1980, 25,000 Shia protested the Islamization laws in the capital Islamabad.
In July 2013, the Army trained female paratrooper officers for the first time.
In July 2023, PTI terminated the basic membership of twenty-two lawmakers and party members from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, including its former Chief Minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Mahmood Khan.
In July 2025, President Asif Ali Zardari appointed new chief justices to all four provincial high courts, based on recommendations from the Judicial Commission of Pakistan (JCP).
In Karachi, extra judicial killings against Muhajirs is not a new phenomenon.
In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, PTI defeated all mainstream political parties across the province with mostly new candidates.
In March 2012, PTI announced plans to conduct US-style intra-party elections, aiming to introduce local caucuses on district levels throughout the country.
In March 2021, Aslam Abro and Shahryar Shar were expelled from the party for violating party discipline, with their memberships subsequently canceled.
In May 1998, the PML-N government led by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif ordered six nuclear tests, in response to Indian nuclear tests.
In May 2007, Pakistan Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Makhdum Khusro Bakhtyar made an official visit to Belarus and meet with high-ranking government officials of Belarus.
In May 2012, President Asif Ali Zardari signed the National Commission for Human Rights Bill 2012 for the promotion of the protection of human rights in the country.
In May 2018, PTI announced a 100-day agenda for a government.
In May 2018, a new constitutional amendment was passed that allowed tribal people to access their rights.
In May, Pakistan witnessed a staggering record inflation rate of 38 per cent compared to the same period the previous year.
In November 1985, the 8th Constitutional Amendment was adopted by the Parliament.
In November 2020, the Foreign Office of Pakistan made public a dossier allegedly containing 'irrefutable proofs' of Indian sponsorship of terrorism in Pakistan.
In November of 2023 a Pakistani court overturned Sharif's conviction, and he considered rejoining the political realm.
In October 1998, Ziauddin Butt was chosen as director general.
In October 2019, the People National Alliance organised a rally to free Kashmir from Pakistani rule.
In October 2022, Faisal Vawda's party membership was terminated over his contentious press conference.
In Pakistan Army, the careers are not restricted to military officials but are extended to civilian personnel and contractors who can progress in administrative branches of the army.
In Pakistan, 1.5% of the population are Christian.
In Pakistan, Hindu and Christian girls are kidnapped, raped, forcibly converted to Islam and married to Muslim men.
In Pakistan’s most populous province, Punjab, PTI has served as the largest opposition party twice and the ruling majority party once.
In Peshawar, the building of Radio Pakistan was set on fire by the protesters, who also shouted slogans against the army and military officials.
In September 2025, Pakistan, along with fifteen other countries, issued a joint statement supporting the Global Sumud Flotilla to Gaza and warning against any unlawful actions targeting it.
In Sindh province, the appointments are made on the backdrop of a test conducted by National testing service (NTS) which is primarily based on English language and General knowledge.
In a 2011 survey, TI Pakistan identified the judiciary as the most corrupt institution in Pakistan alongside the police.
In a landmark 2025 judgment, the Supreme Court of Pakistan ruled against the Federal Board of Revenue (FBR), emphasising that tax recovery must uphold the dignity and legal rights of citizens.
In a later interview his justification for calling off the march was to avoid bloodshed, as he alleged that his supporters were ready to fight against the police.
In a pattern that would be repeated throughout Pakistan's electoral history, many of those who lost accused the winners of cheating and rigging the elections.
In a press conference on 19 February, Nawaz called for President Pervez Musharraf to step down.
In a report published by the Defence Ministry, It said that the incidents of terrorism in Pakistan had seen an increase in 2023 compared to 2018 and 2021 after the US withdrawal from Afghanistan.
In a separate case the police aided in a bride's abduction.
In accordance with the Constitution of Pakistan, Pakistani citizens can voluntarily enlist in military service as early as age 17, but cannot be deployed for combat until age 18.
In addition to the general seats, there are reserved seats for women in the Zila Council, which are proportionately divided among Tehsils or Towns.
In addition to the national and provincial assemblies, Pakistan has over five thousand elected local governments.
In addition to the national parliament and the provincial assemblies, Pakistan also has more than five thousand elected local governments.
In addition to these 300 seats, five seats were reserved for women for each of the two wings, for a period of ten years: thus bringing the total membership of the house to 310.
In addition to this was the unofficial Kargil War and some border skirmishes.
In addition to this, certain amendments which pertain to the federal nature of the Constitution must be ratified by a majority of provincial legislatures.
In addition, the Constitution allows the president to grant pardons, reprieves, and clemency in cases recommended to him by the executive and the judiciary.
In addition, the Pakistani Constitution reserves 10 seats for religious minorities and 60 seats for women, to be filled by proportional representation among parties with more than 5% of the vote.
In an indirect election, Tarar received heavy votes from the electors of Electoral College, becoming the first president from the PML (N).
In an indirect election, the winner is determined by votes cast by the electors of the Electoral College.
In an indirect elections, the electors of the Awami League voted for Mirza's bid for presidency in 1956.
In an indirect party election, Shahbaz Sharif was elected as the party's new president, and the party's leadership shifted its base to London, England.
In an interview with Dawn, political analyst Dr. Rasul Bakhsh Rais described the Shehbaz Sharif administration as the third iteration of a "hybrid regime" following the ouster of Imran Khan.
In an unprecedented act, the judicial proceedings are now televised in order to show the country how the superior court of the land works.
In an unsuccessful attempt to dismiss the Judicial system, Musharraf dramatically fall from power.
In case emergency is proclaimed, the Parliament holds the authority to extend the term of the National Assembly.
In case of complaint of interference in water supply by any province the Council would look into the complaint.
In civil jurisdiction these courts entertain the matters under Succession Act, Insolvency Act, suits for government, summary suits pertaining to negotiable instruments etc.
In comparison, 92.5% are selected by a quota system.
In contrast to the constitutions of India and Bangladesh, the Constitution reflected a heavy compromise over several issues to maintain a delicate balance of power among the country's institutions.
In contrast, the Indian Army's armor had outdated in technology with Korean war-usage American M4 Sherman and World War II manufactured British Centurion Tank, fitted with the French-made CN-75 guns.
In direct elections, a candidate who obtains the highest number of votes in a constituency, is declared elected as a member of the National Assembly or a provincial assembly.
In doing so, Bhutto's government began the politicisation of economic planning.
In each of these periods, the military junta led by the president had the powers of the prime minister.
In elections held in 2013, the PML (N) won 166 seats in the National Assembly and formed the government.
In every province, there is one High Court.
In every town and city, there are numerous civil and judicial magistrates' courts.
In exercises of its constitutional role, the Parliament also has other very important duties to perform.
In governance, PTI tried to move with religious ulema (clergy) to end discrimination against female education.
In his absence, Senate Chairman Sadiq Sanjrani administered the oath of office to the new prime minister.
In his absence, the chairman of Senate exercises the responsibilities of the post, until the actual president resumes office, or the next office holder is elected.
In magisterial functions judicial magistrates record statements on oath of witness, Judicial confession of accused, holds identification test parades, inquest proceedings of the prisoners.
In military awards hierarchy, the Nishan-e-Haidar (lit.
In modern times, Pakistan's first embassy in Athens was opened in 1975.
In most of these constituencies, the number of votes received was in the hundreds.
In my opinion, if we have to repeat of past events then we must understand that Military leaders can pressure only up to a point.
In other provinces civil judges have jurisdiction to entertain first- and second-class suits.
In practice awarded by Constitution, judges of the supreme court have been selected so far, mostly from amongst judges of the high courts.
In response, the voting age was lowered from 21 to 18 and the number of polling stations significantly increased, whilst ID cards were not required for people to cast a vote.
In spite of its limited mandate, Nurul Amin became the prime minister and vice-president of Pakistan – the only figure to have been appointed as vice-president.
In successive years, the Supreme Court was moved to Lahore High Court until the Supreme Court was permanently moved into its new building constructed in Islamabad in 1964.
In the 1960s, the problems over the Durand Line escalated with Afghanistan which led to open hostilities in the 1970s.
In the 1990s, Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif proposed a bill to amend the 1973 constitution to allow a Member to serve a third term as prime minister.
In the 2008 general election, the party won urban votes and dominated the provisional assembly of Punjab Province.
In the 2010, TI Pakistan reported that about 23.7% of those surveyed received admission in educational institutions through non-normal and alternate procedures.
In the 2013 general election, the PTI emerged as a major party with over 7.5 million votes, ranking second by number of votes and third by number of seats won.
In the 2018 Pakistani general election, PTI launched a countrywide populist and anti-corruption campaign.
In the 2018 election, Imran Khan promises to bring a "Naya Pakistan" (new Pakistan).
In the 2018 general election, it received 16.9 million votes—the largest amount for any political party in Pakistan thus far.
In the 2024 Khyber Pakhtunkhwa provincial election, Independent candidates allied with PTI won 86 seats.
In the 2024 Punjab provincial election, Independent candidates allied with PTI won the second-most seats, though the party claims it won the first-most seats without rigging.
In the 3rd National Assembly from 1962 to 1964, eight women were elected as MNAs, including six on reserved seats and two on general seats.
In the 5th National Assembly from 1972 to 1977, six women politicians were elected on reserved seats for women.
In the 7th National Assembly, twenty one women (21) were elected on reserved seats whereas two women were elected on general seats as MNAs for the term from 1985 to 1988.
In the 9th National Assembly for the term (1990-1993), Benazir Bhutto and Begum Nusrat Bhutto were the only two women members who were elected on general seats.
In the US, the seven county Twin Cities (MN) regional system and Portland (OR) Metro are both the most integrated US examples; but, also those often cited in the US for what they have achieved.
In the Upper House, women sponsored 13% parliamentary business individually and 2% jointly with their male counterparts.
In the aftermath of the Babri Masjid demolition Pakistani Hindus faced riots.
In the case of other bills, the president may prevent passage unless the legislature in joint sitting overrules the president by a majority of members of both houses present and voting.
In the early morning, the system crashed.
In the event that the office of the President becomes vacant, the Chairman of the Senate acts as President till such time that the position may be filled through a by election.
In the first Constituent Assembly of Pakistan, composed of 69 members, two women Begum Shaista Suhrawardy Ikramullah and Begum Jahanara Shahnawaz served from 1947 to 1954.
In the first part, the FPSC tests the students in 12 different subjects.
In the following election, PMLN suffered a massive blow due to these corruptions charges, with a net loss of 24.35%.
In the formation of the Cabinet the major portion (75%), goes to National Assembly while the rest (25%) are taken from the Senate.
In the northwestern province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, PTI formed a governing coalition with the Jamaat-e-Islami and Qaumi Watan parties in 2013.
In the northwestern province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, PTI has ruled with a majority government three times.
In the parliamentary democracy, the ultimate responsibility for running the administration rests with the elected representatives of the people who are the ministers.
In the past, this court was used as a refuge for the recalcitrant judges.
In the same decision the court held that the de jure Chief Justice from 3 November 2007 to 22 March 2009 was Justice Chaudhry.
In the wake of the 2013 elections, massive electoral rigging was alleged through first-hand accounts of several members of the public via social networking websites.
In the wake of the new world power equilibrium, a more complex security environment has emerged.
In the week before the elections, Khan was sentenced to jail terms in three separate cases.
In these amendments, the Twenty-Fifth amendment incorporated the former Federally Administered Tribal Areas into the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
In this context, the elevation of General Asim Munir to the rank of field marshal was viewed by experts as further evidence of military dominance, despite the formal presence of a civilian government.
In this respect a resolution for a vote of no-confidence is moved by not less than 20% of the total membership of the National Assembly.
In this way, limited and controlled political activities were resumed.
In times of national emergency, the Pakistan Army Reserves, supported by the National Guard and Civil Armed Forces, would likely be deployed to reinforce defensive positions and fortifications.
In total there are 149 districts in Pakistan, of which several are city districts.
In winter front such as in the Siachen and near the Wakhan Corridor, the Pakistan Army personnel wears the heavy winter all white military gear.
Inconsistently with the decision, the present Chief Justice Chaudhry accepted the stance of the government that Justice Dogar was the Chief Justice until his retirement.
India and Pakistan have fought in numerous armed conflicts since their independence.
India and Pakistan have fought three conventional wars throughout the 20th century over the issue of Kashmir.
India had recognised the PRC a year before, and Indian Prime Minister Nehru also hoped for closer relations because India was afraid of the PRC.
India has accused the ISI of plotting the 1993 Bombay bombings.
India has denied Pakistan's allegations.
India surrendered and called for retreat.
Indian intelligence agencies have claimed they have proof of ISI involvement with the Naxalites.
Individuals convicted under the National Accountability Bureau Ordinance are prohibited from holding political office for ten years.
Indonesia has its embassy in Islamabad and a consulate in Karachi and Pakistan has its embassy in Jakarta and a consulate in Medan.
Initially Imran Khan claimed that the United States was behind his ouster, claiming US Assistant Secretary of State Donald Lu threatened his government through a diplomatic cipher.
Initially, the Supreme Court met in Karachi and later moved to Lahore/Rawalpindi on various location until 1960 after the government moved to Islamabad.
Insaf Research Wing (IRW) was established to conduct research aimed at finding solutions to issues in Pakistan.
Inspector General of Police Punjab Dr. Usman Anwar confirmed the use of geo-fencing to trace these communications, naming Imran Khan as a prime suspect in orchestrating the attacks.
Instead, the executive power is exercised on his behalf by the prime minister who keeps him informed on all matters of internal and foreign policy, as well as all legislative proposals.
Institutional and judicial procedures were later changed, in 1950s, under the influence of American legal system to remove the fundamental rights problems.
International observers from the European Union and the Commonwealth of Nations said the election met basic conditions but would not describe it as 'free and fair'.
International officials have accused the ISI of continuing to support and even lead the Taliban during the 2001-2021 War in Afghanistan.
Ireland is represented in Pakistan through its embassy in Riyadh (Saudi Arabia) and an honorary consulate in Karachi.
Islam and its idealism have taught us democracy.
Islam was declared as the State religion of Pakistan.
Islamabad and Manama enjoy close co-operations between the two in many fields of brotherhood.
Islamabad supports the Maldivian position in the territorial dispute over the southern Indian colony of Minicoy Island in the Lakshadweep, whose population is Muslim by faith.
Japan has been part of funding the country with machines to access ground water, as well as aid for improving its sewer and drainage systems.
Jillani Saqib Nisar and Asif Saeed Khosa have gain prominent attention from media in all over the country, mainly due to their ideological and philosophical leanings.
Joanne Herring, an American socialite, is widely believed to have influenced General Zia Ul Haq's foreign policies.
Joint Intelligence/North is responsible for conducting operations in Jammu and Kashmir and Afghanistan.
Joint Ministerial Commission agreement between the two countries was signed in 1974.
Joint initiatives between Bahraini and Pakistani governments have started to further bilateral trades that reached $250 million in 2007.
Journalist and historian Nadeem F. Paracha and journalist Tahir Mehdi have highlighted the 1997 elections' controversial aspects.
Journalists also have been victims of violence and intimidation by various groups and individuals.
Journalists face widespread threats and violence making Pakistan one of the worst countries to be a journalist in, with 61 being killed since September 2001 and at least 6 murdered in 2013 alone.
Judges of the Judicial Service are generally ignored during the selection while influential Lawyers who have political support from Political Parties and Bars make it to the higher Judiciary.
Judicial academies provide training for judges and judicial officials from within the country and other countries.
Judicial magistrates possesses territorial jurisdiction police station wise as per notification issued by the Court of Session Judge.
Jurisdiction of juvenile courts was conferred to sessions judges and judicial magistrates in accordance with their original jurisdiction under Code of Criminal Procedure.
Justice Qazi Faez Isa is of the Hazara descent who is currently serving as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.
Juvenile Justice System Act provides that every person below the age of 18 years is juvenile.
Kashmir (Azad Kashmir) has its own constitution, the Azad Jammu and Kashmir Interim Constitution Act of 1974, and a locally chosen parliamentary form of government, as described above.
Kazakhstan is an emerging market for Pakistani goods.
Khan decided to push for the dissolution of the provincial assemblies of Punjab and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa to force early elections instead of continuing the march.
Khan declined to forge alliances with other parties to establish a coalition government and instead opted to assume an opposition role in parliament.
Khan does not hold the position of official chairman due to his current state in the Adiala Prison.
Khan entered into an agreement with the Sharif administration to establish a three-member high-powered judicial commission which would be formed under a presidential ordinance.
Khan himself has been arrested and detained on several occasions.
Khan lead the march from Peshawar, the capital of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, where his provincial government helped him.
Khan led the march from Peshawar, the capital of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, where his provincial government helped him.
Khan successfully campaigned against his opponent, Fatima Jinnah, for a second term, but some have alleged that elections were rigged in favour of Ayub Khan.
Khan was chairing the Insaf panel and earned 189,055 votes while the rival Ehtesab panel secured 41,647 votes.
Khan's arrest led to a nationwide protest by his supporters.
Khan's campaign against the military has not been without its challenges.
Khan-led PTI has dissolved two of its provincial assemblies (Punjab and KP) triggering elections in 60% of country due on 30 April 2023 and 28 May 2023 respectively.
Khattak also inspected hospitals and dismissed alleged corrupt staff and absent staff, often on the spot.
Khattak carried out healthcare reforms such as introducing Health Insurance Scheme, Sehat Sahulat Program for poor people and an 'Insulin for life' fund.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa accounting for 64 percent of the reported casualties (633 fatalities in 2022), followed by 26 percent in Balochistan, 5.8 percent in Sindh and 2.8 percent in Punjab.
Kishwar Zehra is serving as the Chairperson of the Committee on Cabinet Secretariat, whereas Munaza Hassan is the Chairperson of the Committee on Climate Change.
Known as the Charter of Democracy, the document was signed by Nawaz Sharif and Benazir Bhutto in London, and they announced their opposition to Musharraf and Shaukat Aziz.
Kuwait was also the first country to send aid to isolated mountain villages in Kashmir after the quake of 2005, also offering the largest amount of aid in the aftermath of the quake, US$100 million.
Later in 1985 through a Presidential Order (P.O.
Later in 2010, TI Pakistan presented a breakdown of the various actors in the judicial system involved in corruption.
Later in November 2022, in an interview with the Financial Times, Khan said he no longer "blamed" the United States and "[a]s far as I'm concerned it's over, it's behind me".
Later, Hollard's management was dissatisfied with the investment, citing corruption as a major impediment to their investment's success.
Later, Wajihuddin was expelled from the party by Imran Khan.
Later, in October, 1966, the Parliament was shifted to Dhaka.
Later, the ISPR denied any knowledge of the Jinnahpur conspiracy and separatist maps, which were highly publicized in the media prior to the operation's launch.
Latif was a senior commander of Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP).
Latvia maintains an honorary consul in Karachi.
Law enforcement authorities do not view domestic violence as a crime and usually refuse to register any cases brought to them.
Law prescribes their powers and functions.
Lawmakers from the opposition party the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI), criticised the amendments as an effort to weaken the judiciary and called it a "black day" in Pakistan's constitutional history.
Leaders and constitutional experts of the Islamic political parties, conservative parties, socialists and communist parties were delegated to attend the constitutional convention in 1972.
Lebanon and Pakistan have good relations.
Legislative powers vested in the Parliament, which consisted of the president and the National Assembly with 300 Members divided equally between East and West Pakistan.
Less than a year after its establishment, PTI participated in the 1997 general elections.
Local government is protected by the constitution in Articles 32 and 140-A, and each province also has its own local-government-enabling legislation and ministries responsible for implementation.
Lord Mountbatten, Governor General of India, addressed the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan.
Lt. Sattar Alvi flying a MiG-21 shot down an Israeli Air Force Mirage flown by Captain M. Lutz, and was honoured by the Syrian government.
Mahmood Khan was made Chief Minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa by PTI.
Main feature of this set was the introduction of the presidential system and more consolidated powers to the President.
Management of major crisis situations in the country and coordination of activities of the various Ministries in such situations are the functions of the Cabinet Division.
Many PTI leaders were forced to have their relatives run in the elections due to an alleged crackdown, including Parvez Elahi's wife Qaisara Elahi running and Usman Dar's mother Rehana Dar running.
Many Tajiks have immigrated to Pakistan, notably in the city of Ishkoman where they have integrated into the local population.
Many analysts (mainly Indian and American) believe that the ISI provides support to militant groups, though others think these allegations remain unsubstantiated.
Many argued that Sharif was favoured in this process because he was a political protégé of the military dictator at the helm.
Many civilians see little distinction between aid agencies, the military operations, and "western interests"; ‘you bomb our villages and then build hospitals’.
Many donors see the conflict as an opportunity for more comprehensive engagement in an effort to promote stability in the region, to promote a legitimate government, and curtail transnational threats.
Many human-rights activists in Pakistan have protested against forced disappearances and kidnappings.
Many humanitarian organisations thus avoid being too visible and do not mark their aid with their logos.
Many judges who were appointed were relatives of other Judges or Government officials.
Many of Fiji's large Muslim population maintain family links with Pakistan.
Many of Suriname Hindustani Muslim speak Urdu, and maintain cultural link in Pakistan.
Many of its most influential members, sponsors, and financiers came to defect to the new group that was sympathetic to Pervez Musharraf.
Many of the Muslims from British Guiana even took Pakistani citizenship after the Independence of Pakistan in 1947 and migrated to Pakistan.
Many of those who have been taken in are looked after by political and religious groups providing assistance in return for membership or support.
Many terrorists belonging to various terrorist groups were killed.
Married Hindu women have been forcibly kidnapped and married to Muslims, and are left without legal recourse due to inability to prove their previous marriage.
Maryam Nawaz is now eligible to run for election.
Maulvi Tamizuddin, President of the Assembly, challenged the dissolution in the Sindh Chief Court, and won the case.
May Allah Almighty help and guide me (A'meen).
May Allah Almighty help and guide me (Ameen).
Mazhar Abbas argued that the lack of party-based elections amounted to inherent pre-poll rigging, deepening societal divisions along feudal and caste lines.
Meanwhile, PTI alleges that the incidents of 9 May were a false flag operation designed by the Pakistani establishment to disintegrate PTI and frame Imran Khan.
Member of Parliament and adviser to the Prime Minister, Ahmed Ebrahim Haroon Jaffer, represented Pakistan at the World Constituent Assembly in Interlaken, Switzerland in August 1968.
Members are elected for five-year terms.
Members are elected through the first-past-the-post system under universal adult suffrage, representing electoral districts known as National Assembly constituencies.
Members hold their seats for five years or until the house is dissolved by the President on the advice of the Prime Minister.
Members of the Cabinet are appointed by the president on the advice of the prime minister.
Members of the National Assembly are elected by the people in competitive multi-party elections, to be held at most five years apart on universal adult franchise.
Members of the National Assembly are elected by universal adult suffrage (formerly twenty-one years of age and older but the seventeenth amendment changed it to eighteen years of age.).
Members of the Senate are elected according to Article 59 of the Constitution.
Members of the Union Council, including the Union Administrator and Vice Union Administrator, are elected through direct elections based on adult franchise and a joint electorate.
Members, referred to as 'senators', sit for six year-terms, with half of the house up for election every three years.
Mian Aslam Iqbal alleged that dowry for his daughter's wedding was seized by Punjab Police; and Ali Nawaz Awan alleged that his home was demolished.
Mian Muhammad Nawaz Sharif took oath as prime minister of Pakistan and leader of the house on 17 February 1997.
Mian Sir Abdur Rashid, Chief Justice of Pakistan, administered the oath of office from him.
Military operations in Pakistan's tribal areas have caused the dispersal of Pashtuns away from their homes.
Military presidents include General Ayub Khan in the 1960s, General Yahya Khan, General Zia ul Haq in the 1980s, and General Pervez Musharraf from 1999.
Minority members of the Pakistan National Assembly have alleged that Hindus were being hounded and humiliated to force them to leave Pakistan.
Mir Zafar ullah Jamali was elected leader of the house on 21 November 2002.
Misconduct of judges is highly intolerable as is mentioned in the constitution.
Misuse of authority: officials may exploit their positions for personal gain, favoring certain individuals or businesses.
Mobs attacked five Hindu temples in Karachi and set fire to 25 temples in towns across the province of Sindh.
Mohtarma Benizar Bhutto administered the oath as Prime Minister of Pakistan on 19 October 1993.
More recently Saba Ismail has represented women's rights at the United Nations.
More recently, an international newspaper published the Panama papers, naming Sharif's sons as among people who created offshore companies.
Moreover, according to the Government of Pakistan, the direct and indirect economic costs of terrorism from 2000 to 2010 total $68 billion.
Most of PTI's central leadership was elected.
Most of Pakistan's laws are secular in nature, some of which were inherited from the United Kingdom's colonial rule of modern-day Pakistan before 1947.
Most of them tend to settle in the state of Rajasthan in India.
Most violence takes place in the largest province of Punjab and the country's commercial and financial capital, Karachi.
Mr. Gohar Ayub Khan was elected as the Speaker of the National Assembly and he took oath on 4 November 1990.
Mr. Illahi Bukhsh Soomro took oath of the office of the Speaker National Assembly on 16 February 1997.
Mr. Miraj Khalid was elected as the Speaker of the National Assembly on 3 December 1988.
Mr. Muhammad Khan Junejo, was nominated as the Prime Minister of Pakistan by the president (General Zia-ul-Haq).
Mr. Shaukat Aziz was elected the leader of the house on 27 August 2004 and was administered oath of the Prime Minister of Pakistan on 28 August 2004.
Mrs. Naseem Wali Khan was the first woman to have been elected from the North-West Frontier Province.
Muhammad Nawaz Sharif was elected as Prime Minister of Pakistan and took oath on 11 November 1990.
Multi-county frameworks are suitable for a very suburbanised system like in the US.
Multiple forced disappearances have been reported in Balochistan.
Nasreen Jalil was the only woman member elected as a Senator for the term from 1997 to 2000.
National Assembly members serve for the parliamentary term, which is five years, unless they die or resign sooner, or unless the National Assembly is dissolved.
National Assembly of Pakistan completed its Constitutional tenure on 15 November 2007.
National Assembly of Pakistan expressed confidence in the leadership of President General Pervez Musharraf through the resolution on 1 January 2004.
Nationally, PTI became the third-largest party and the largest in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, as well as the second-largest in Punjab.
Naval Commander Syed Mohammad Ahsan, who served as Deputy Director Naval Intelligence of Pakistan and helped formulate ISI procedure, undertook and managed the recruitment and expansion of the ISI.
Nawaz Sharif allowed Benazir Bhutto to hold the office of Leader of the Opposition, though the PML-N held control of the state parliament.
Nawaz Sharif had won the favour and support of President Zia-ul-Haq, who approved his appointment as Chief Minister of Punjab Province in 1985.
Nawaz Sharif is accused of using corruption money to grow his assets in his business ventures and Ittefaq Group.
Nawaz Sharif was elected President of the Pakistan Muslim League (N) in 2011.
Nawaz and Zardari agreed on forming a coalition, and Nawaz announced that he and his party gave the PPP the right to choose the next Prime Minister.
Nawaz gave an interview to Dawn News on 12 May 2018 in which he said that non-state actors from Pakistan were involved in the Mumbai terrorist attacks in 2008.
Nawaz said that the PML-N would support the government without participating in it.
Negotiations that fall apart between Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, Mujibur Rehman, and Yahya Khan that prompted to liberation movement in the East Pakistan.
Neither side acknowledged this role, however, until lawyers' movement leader Aitezaz Ahsan publicly admitted Kayani's role.
Nepal and Pakistan are signatories to the South Asia Free Trade Agreement (SAFTA) and members of the South Asian Economic Union.
Nepotism and patronage: jobs, promotions, and contracts often go to those with political connections rather than merit.
Nevertheless, the military takeover in 1977 reversed the changes.
Nevertheless, the steps already taken under these Acts shall remain valid.
Nevertheless, the steps already taken under these acts shall remain valid.
New Zealand was party to the Commonwealth Heads of Government decision to readmit Pakistan to the Councils of the Commonwealth after the restoration of civilian rule in May 2008.
No Prime Minister of Pakistan has ever completed their full length tenure.
No further changes were carried out to oppose the 1956 document.
No law repugnant to Islam shall be enacted and the present laws shall also be Islamised.
No massive protests were held by the party; its leaders remained silent and remained supportive towards the military action against Nawaz Sharif.
No other name appears in the Constitution, and this is the name that appears on money, in treaties, and in legal cases.
No woman was elected on the reserved seat due to the sunset clause in the Constitution where this provision had expired after three election cycles.
No woman was elected to the Senate for the term from 1985 to 1988.
None of the loans of millions of rupees were paid back to the banks.
Nonetheless, religious violence and intimidation, as well as periodic charges of blasphemy, have occurred.
Norway and Pakistan have strengthened ties.
Norway has an embassy in Islamabad and an honorary consulate in Lahore, whereas Pakistan has an embassy in Oslo.
Notably, it played a major role in rescuing trapped American soldiers who had requested the assistance of a quick reaction force during Operation Gothic Serpent in Somalia.
Notably, two army pilots from the Aviation Corps were honored for a daring rescue operation.
Note: Azad Kashmir is federally administered and is a "Local authority".
Note: Tehreek-e-Insaf, Jamaat-e-Islami, Jamiat Ulema-e-Pakistan, Tehrik-e-Jafaria Pakistan and Jamiat Ahle Hadith Pashtunkhwa Milli Awami Party did not participate.
Nurul Amin's crushing defeat to the United Front alliance effectively eliminates Pakistan Muslim League from the political landscape of the then East Pakistan.
Observers such as Nusrat Javed have noted the contrast between the nonpartisan nature of the 1985 elections and the specific political obstacles encountered in the 2024 elections.
Of ten (10) Parliamentary Committees, only three (3) are headed by women MNAs.
Of the 14 justices that rendered a verdict related to taking an oath under the PCO, 12 had taken the oath themselves.
Of the eight judges, three are required to be Islamic scholars/Ulema qualified in Islamic law.
Of the eight judges, three are required to be Ulema who are well versed in Islamic law.
Of the respondents who were asked to identify which parties orchestrated the corrupt acts, 61% reported hospital staff, 25% reported doctors, and 13% reported nurses.
Of these 11 began their term in 2015 while the remaining 9 began their term in 2018.
Of these, 266 are filled by direct elections.
Of thirty (30) Standing Committees of the Senate, six (6) are headed by women.
Officially a federal Islamic republic, Pakistan has had a long history of alternating periods of electoral democracy and authoritarian military government.
On 1 January 2016, the Planning Commission began phasing out the Annual Confidential Report (ACRs) with the key performance indicators (KPIs) to determine the promotions of civil servants.
On 10 July 2017, JIT submitted a 275-page report to the Supreme Court of Pakistan.
On 11 April 2022, Shehbaz Sharif was elected as the country's 23rd Prime Minister.
On 11 August 1947 Muhammad Ali Jinnah was elected unanimously as the president of the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan and the National Flag was formally approved by the Assembly.
On 11 August 1947, Quaid-i-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah was elected unanimously as the President of the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan and the National Flag was formally approved by the Assembly.
On 11 May the Supreme Court of Pakistan deemed the arrest of Imran Khan as unlawful and ordered the Pakistani authorities to release him.
On 12 April 2022, PTI submitted a motion of no-confidence against their own Azad Kashmir prime minister who was then replaced.
On 12 August 1947, a resolution was approved regarding officially addressing Jinnah as Quaid-i-Azam.
On 13 May 2008, the PML-N ministers resigned from the government due to a disagreement related to the reinstatement of the judges.
On 13 May 2013, Parvez Khattak was appointed as the Chief Minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
On 14 August 1947, the Transfer of Power took place.
On 14 August 2014, Imran Khan led a rally of supporters from Lahore to Islamabad, demanding Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's resignation and investigation into alleged electoral fraud.
On 15 August 1947, the Quaid-i-Azam was sworn in as the first Governor General of Pakistan.
On 16 February, in a press conference, PML-N spokeswoman Marriyum Aurangzeb stated that all Form 45s produced on social media as proof of fraud allegations were fake.
On 16 November 1999, Ordinance XIX was passed which later came to be known as the National Accountability Bureau Ordinance.
On 16 October 1951, Khan, the mover of the Objective Resolution, was assassinated and Khawaja Nazimuddin took over as the Prime Minister on 17 October 1951.
On 17 April 1972 an Interim Constitution was adopted by the National Assembly, which provided for a Presidential form of Government.
On 18 August 2018, Imran Khan was sworn in as the country's 22nd prime minister.
On 18 February 1997, when Nawaz Sharif obtained a vote of confidence, the Pakistan Muslim League assumed the government of Pakistan.
On 18 February 2008, after the polls were closed and the results had been announced, the PML-N gained 68 seats in the National Assembly, just behind the PPP.
On 19 April 2022, Prime Minister Shahbaz Sharif's 34-member cabinet was sworn in, but President Arif Alvi refused again.
On 19 March 2023, Ijaz-ul-Haq, the leader of the Pakistan Muslim League (Z) (PML(Z)) along with his party members, joined the PTI after meeting with Imran Khan.
On 2 August 2023, PTI terminated basic party membership of twenty-two party leaders from South Punjab due to party policy violations, including its former Chief Minister of Punjab, Usman Buzdar.
On 2 December 2023, Gohar Ali Khan was elected unopposed as the Chairman of the PTI.
On 2 December 2023, PTI held new intra-party elections, which were invalidated by Election Commission of Pakistan.
On 2 March 1985, the revival of Constitution Order (P.O.14 of 1985) was issued in which a large number of amendments were made in the Constitution.
On 20 December 1971 Mr. Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto took over as the President of Pakistan as well as the first civil Chief Martial Law Administrator.
On 20 June 2001, through a notification (C.E.
On 20 October 1972, the draft was revived by all leaders of the political parties and signed the declaration of adopting the Constitution in the National Assembly on 2 February 1973.
On 21 October 2024, the National Assembly passed the 26th Amendment in an hours-long, overnight session.
On 22 August 2008, the electoral commission called for presidential nominations to be delivered by 26 August 2008 and for elections to be held on 6 September 2008.
On 22 May 2004, the Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group re-admitted Pakistan into the Commonwealth, formally acknowledging its progress in returning to democracy.
On 22 November 1954, bureaucratic administrators moved a resolution to merge the four western provinces into a single unit called West Pakistan.
On 23 April 2013, Khan addressed large rallies in Renala Khurd, Okara, and other parts of Sahiwal Division.
On 24 February 1992, diplomatic and consular relations were established during an official visit by Kazakhstani president Nursultan Nazarbayev to Pakistan.
On 24 May 2022, Khan announced a long march (Azadi March I) towards Islamabad starting on 25 May 2022.
On 24 May 2022, Khan announced a long march towards Islamabad starting on 25 May 2022.
On 25 August 2008, Nawaz Sharif announced that Saeeduzzaman Siddiqui would be Pakistan Muslim League (N) nominee to replace Pervez Musharraf as President of Pakistan.
On 25 December 1981, under Presidential Order (P.O.15 of 1981) a Federal Council (Majlis-e-Shoora) was constituted by the president.
On 25 March 1969 the second Martial law was imposed and General Agha Muhammad Yahya Khan took over as the president of Pakistan and Chief Martial Law Administrator (CMLA).
On 27 June 2008, the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) and the Pakistan People's Party (PPP) won three and two by-election seats respectively, in the national parliament.
On 27 October 1958 General Muhammad Ayub Khan took over as second President of Pakistan.
On 29 April 2017, the director general released a tweet that said: "Notification on Dawn Leak is incomplete and not in line with recommendations by the Inquiry Board.
On 29 August 2023, a Pakistani appeals court overturned the decision and granted bail.
On 29 August 2023, the IHC suspended Imran Khan's sentence, but Khan has since then been convicted in other cases.
On 29 May 1988 the Assembly was dissolved by the president by using the power acquired under Article 58(2)(b).
On 29 May 2023, Ijaz later denied the rumours of PML-Z getting merged into PTI.
On 29 September 2022, Islamabad High Court overturned the corruption conviction of Maryam Nawaz and her husband Muhammad Safdar.
On 3 April 2022, President of Pakistan Arif Alvi dissolved the Assembly Under Section 58-I and 48-I on the advice of Prime Minister Imran Khan.
On 3 August 2023, thirteen members of PTI were expelled due to violations of the party policy.
On 3 March 2024, Shehbaz Sharif was re-elected for the second time as the country's 24th Prime Minister.
On 3 November during a political rally near the town of Gujranwala, 2022 former prime minister of Pakistan Imran Khan was engaged in an assassination attempt, but survived the shooting.
On 30 April, Khan visited his hometown of Mianwali, where he addressed several rallies, criticizing the Bhuttos and Sharifs.
On 3rd June 1947, Lord Mountbatten, the last Viceroy of India, called the conference of all the leaders of the Sub-continent and communicated to them his Government's Plan for the transfer of power.
On 4 April 2023, the Supreme Court declared the country's poll panel's decision to delay the assembly elections in two provinces as "unconstitutional".
On 4 September 2018, Arif Alvi was elected as the 13th President of Pakistan.
On 5 August 2023, Imran Khan was again arrested on the charges of selling state gifts and was sentenced to three years jail and five years of disqualification by the trial court Judge.
On 5 August 2023, Khan was arrested for the second time for allegedly selling state gifts.
On 5 July 1977 through Operation Fair Play, the ISI began collecting intelligence on the Pakistan Communist Party and the Pakistan Peoples Party.
On 5 March 1956, Major General Iskandar Mirza became the first President of Pakistan.
On 6 August 2018, PTI officially nominated Imran Khan as the candidate for prime minister.
On 6 October 2016, the daily newspaper Dawn published a report about a government meeting allegedly arranged by Sharif.
On 6 October 2021, the Pakistan military's media affairs wing announced the replacement of Faiz Hameed with Nadeem Anjum.
On 7 April, the Supreme Court of Pakistan set aside the dissolution order, restoring the National Assembly.
On 7 March 2023, Parvez Elahi took the charge as the President of PTI, a party position that was previously held by Javed Hashmi.
On 7 October 1958 Mirza staged a coup d'état, imposed Martial law, abrogated the Constitution, and appointed the army chief General Ayub Khan as the Chief Martial Law Administrator.
On 7 October 1958 Pakistan's civilian and first President Iskander Mirza in collaboration with General Mohammad Ayub Khan abrogated Pakistan's constitution and declared Martial Law.
On 8 April, opposition parties in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly filed a no-confidence motion against Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Chief Minister Mahmood Khan.
On 8 December 1951 the North West Frontier Province held elections for Provincial legislature seats.
On 9 May, Imran Khan was placed under arrest by police.
On February 14, 1960, Pakistan held a referendum, which was President Muhammad Ayub Khan's first popular vote following the suspension of the parliamentary system in 1958.
On January 3 of 2021, a group of miners in Balochistan were victims of terrorist attacks.
On July 28, 1994, Amnesty International urged Pakistan's Prime Minister, Benazir Bhutto to change the law because it was being used to terrorize religious minorities.
On May 9, a series of riots and violent demonstrations directly occurred against military and government instillations.
On October 7, 1958, Martial Law was promulgated and the Constitution abrogated.
On assuming the presidency, General Yahya Khan acceded to popular demands by abolishing the one-unit system in West Pakistan and ordered general elections on the principle of one man, one vote.
On election day, the Pakistan Telecommunication Authority shut down internet access nationwide.
On its way to the capital, the PTI convoy was attacked by stones from PML (N) supporters in Gujranwala; there were no fatalities.
On the basis of this report a new Constitution was framed and given to the nation on 1 March 1962.
On the day after the elections, at 2 AM, the ECP was supposed to begin to release the provisional results for national and provincial constituencies.
On the following day, Khan continued his mass campaign in South Punjab.
On the other hand, Pakistan's relations with Iran have been strained at times due to sectarian tensions.
On the other hand, state-owned public schools face several challenges including poor management and governance, and incompetence of consecutive governments in the education sector.
On the other hand, the opposition held 173 seats.
On the same day social media was heavily restricted.
On the same day, Mr. Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto took oath as the Prime Minister, while Mr. Fazal Illahi Choudhary took oath as the president of Pakistan.
On the same day, a 24-member Basic Principles Committee was formed to prepare a draft Constitution on the basis of the Objectives Resolution.
On the same day, he spoke at a rally in Rawalpindi's Constituency NA-56, accompanied by Shaikh Rasheed Ahmad.
On the same day, through another Order (C.E.
On this issue, Opposition Parties submitted a resolution for vote of no confidence against Speaker National Assembly on 20 June 2003 which was rejected on 28 June 2003.
Once appointed by the Prime Minister, all Cabinet Ministers are officially confirmed to their appointment offices by the President in a special oath of ceremony.
One key benefit is the potential to disrupt an enemy's offensive plans, forcing them to shift focus from their initial attack to defending their own territory.
One of the biggest problems identified in the country is the presence of a non-uniform educational system.
One of the first major steps taken by General Ayub Khan was the appointment of a Constitution Commission on 17 February 1960.
One of the major achievements of this Assembly was the passage of Political Parities Act, 1962.
One of the major decisions taken by this Assembly was the establishment of West Pakistan (One Unit), with the aim to create parity between the two wings (East and West Pakistan).
One of the rulings also barred Khan from holding public office for 10 years.
One prominent example is honor killings (“karo kari”), which are believed to have accounted for more than 4,000 deaths from 1998 to 2003.
One seat in the Senate is reserved for minorities in each province.
Only 0.57% of Pakistanis, or 768,000 people out of a population of 190 million pay income tax.
Only candidates between 21 and 30 years old can apply for CSS Exam.
Only the National Assembly can approve the federal budget and all finance bills.
Only the National Assembly, through its Public Accounts Committee, scrutinizes public spending and exercises control of expenditure incurred by the government.
Only the Parliament can amend the Constitution, by a two-thirds majority vote separately in each House.
Operation Zarb-e-Azb has been described as turning point in Pakistan war on terrorism.
Opposition parties including the PPP and the Pakistan Muslim League referred to Musharraf's decision to hold a referendum as inappropriate and urged citizens to boycott the vote.
Opposition parties, mainly PML-N, alleged major vote rigging and malpractices.
Opposition to this type of legislation remains.
Order No.1) the Chief Executive assumed the office of the president of Pakistan under President's Succession Order, 2001.
Ordered by the Supreme Court, General Musharraf held general election in 2002, preventing Sharif and Benazir Bhutto from keeping the public office.
Ordinary citizens face challenges in reporting instances of corruption they encounter with the police.
Originally elected for five-year term, Leghari was forced resigned from the presidency after forcing out Benazir Bhutto from the government in 1996.
Originally there were 210 National Assembly seats including 10 women which was increased to 237 in 1985 and later to 342.
Originally, the PPP nomination was Makhdoom Shahbuddin, but he was forced to withdraw after the ANF issued non-bailable arrest warrants against him.
Originally, the general seats of the National Assembly were 200 with additional 10 seats reserved for women, bringing the total strength to 210.
Other Ministers are Ministers of State, junior members who report directly to one of the Cabinet Ministers, often overseeing a specific aspect of government.
Other benefits include the free housing and medical treatment as well as tax-free electricity bills.
Other central services included the Pakistan Postal Service, Pakistan Military Land and Cantonment Service, Central Secretariat Service, and Central Information Service.
Other notable military operations during the global war on terrorism in the 21st century have included: Zarb-e-Azb, Black Thunderstorm, and Rah-e-Nijat.
Our diplomatic relations with Libya were established in December 1951.
Out of the 50 different committees of the Senate, ten (10) are presided over by women members.
Out of the pool of corruption-affirmative respondents, 71% reported that money was "demanded directly by the actor".
Out of these 86 seats, 58 are officially recognized as PTI members by the Supreme Court of Pakistan and Election Commission of Pakistan, while the remaining seats are officially Independents.
Out of these, 6 are recognized as PTI and 4 are recognized as members of the Sunni Ittehad Council.
Outside funding for these Sunni Militia comes mostly from Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states which have a predominantly Sunni population and leadership.
Overall, the two nations have almost always had a friendly bond.
PAF and Navy fighter pilots voluntarily served in Arab nations' militaries against Israel in the Yom Kippur War (1973).
PML(N), PMLN or PML-N)[a] is a Pakistani political party with a centre-right political position and a liberal conservative ideology.
PML-N currently holds the most electoral seats in the National Assembly; and third-most in the Senate.
PML-N supporters blame the army for orchestrating their defeat, and protests accused the army of "terrorism", including in Rawalpindi, not far from the army's headquarters.
PMLN blamed this primarily on alleged vote rigging and administrative malpractices.
PTI also emerged as the second-largest party in Karachi.
PTI also succeeded in electing its Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly, Asad Qaiser and Qasim Suri respectively.
PTI also won an even larger majority in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa a second time and won the most seats in Punjab to form a government.
PTI and observers have claimed it has found evidence of pre-poll rigging.
PTI began to grow slowly but did not achieve immediate popularity.
PTI claims it won a total of 180 National Assembly seats in comparison to the 93 seats it officially won.
PTI claims it won the elections in Punjab and nationwide and claims several vote numbers throughout Pakistan were changed by the ECP to decrease vote amounts for PTI.
PTI emerged as a major party in the 2013 Pakistani general election and raised public distress on various issues against the government in the following years.
PTI has alleged that 38 Sindh Assembly seats, many of which are in Karachi were rigged in the 2024 Sindh provincial election against it, in favor of MQM-P and PPP.
PTI has been found to win most of its seats in Karachi.
PTI is currently serving as an opposition party in Sindh since 2024 after PTI-backed members won 10 seats.
PTI launched its first dharna on 14 August 2014.
PTI leaders were forced to quit party/party positions in televised press conferences.
PTI nominated Mian Aslam Iqbal for Opposition Leader but has been replaced by Malik Ahmad Khan Bhachar temporarily due to threats of an arrest to Iqbal.
PTI nominated Usman Buzdar as Chief Minister of Punjab, Mahmood Khan as Chief Minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and Jam Kamal Khan as Chief Minister of Balochistan.
PTI obtained 34 out of 99 seats in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly.
PTI openly boycotted the Pakistani general election on 18 February 2008 because it believed that the election was fraudulent and fraught with irregularities.
PTI party membership may be suspended or cancelled for violations of party discipline.
PTI plans to develop poverty reduction programmes, promote diverse livelihood options, improve the healthcare system, and improve educational system reforms.
PTI revealed evidence suggesting that PTI workers and party members were harassed, and unlawfully arrested.
PTI ruled from 2013 to 2018 under the Pervez Khattak administration, from 2018 to 2023 under Chief Minister Mahmood Khan and from 2024 to the present under the Gandapur ministry.
PTI supporters have been reported to have attacked media personnel during their protest demonstrations.
PTI swooped the militancy-hit northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and formed the provincial government.
PTI was charged with targeting Pakistan Television and parliament, as well as law enforcement.
PTI won 31 directly elected parliamentary seats, marking a significant increase from the 2002 elections.
PTI won a large plurality across the country becoming the largest party in the National Assembly following its widespread campaign for a ‘Naya Pakistan’ (New Pakistan).
PTI won a total of 116 of the 270 seats contested.
PTI won the most seats in the National Assembly but fell short of a majority; the party subsequently formed a coalition government with several smaller parties.
PTI workers also attacked the Geo News Islamabad office.
PTI workers and members caused incidents of vandalism, looting, and arson, resulting in Rs.
PTI's Chief Minister, Pervez Khattak began infrastructure projects to build dams which aimed to limit flooding and provide small scale electricity in remote areas.
PTI's former leader and head of the party's election tribunal investigated corruption and fraud, as well as internal election rigging within PTI.
PTI's former president, Makhdoom Javed Hashmi, has alleged that Imran Khan was conspiring with the Chief Justice of Pakistan, Nasirul Mulk.
PTI's popularity propelled 20 representatives to the Punjab Assembly.
PTI, in conjunction with many political parties, joined the All Parties Democratic Movement, which was opposed to further military rule.
PTI’s cabinet placed top party leadership, Central General Secretary Asad Umar, Hammad Azhar and Vice Chairman Shah Mahmood Qureshi in top ministries.
PTI’s campaign gained confidence after its biggest opponent, Pakistan Muslim League (N) (PML-N) fell to major corruption allegations following the Panama Papers Case.
PTI’s governance model was announced as to build Pakistan as a humanitarian state based on principles of the first Islamic state of Medina.
PTI’s taking office saw a break in the PPP and PML-N two-party system.
Pakistan Army has a separate cadet course for women which is known as 'Lady Cadet Course', female cadets are trained in Pakistan Military Academy.
Pakistan Army troops also had a relatively strong presence as part of a UN and NATO coalition during the Bosnian War and the larger Yugoslav Wars.
Pakistan Navy's officials were found guility of corruption in Karachi affair.
Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf established its youth wing aimed at addressing the concerns and challenges faced by individuals under the age of 40.
Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf was founded by Imran Khan on 25 April 1996 in Lahore.
Pakistan also gave nationality to many Muslim Indians in Mozambique after 1961 Indian annexation of Goa.
Pakistan also has bilateral visa-abolition scheme with Tonga, for all passport types of both the countries.
Pakistan also offers training facilities to young Albanian bureaucrats in the field of banking, finance, management and diplomacy.
Pakistan also provide scholarships to Ugandan students under its technical assistance programme.
Pakistan ambassador to Russia is accredited as a non-residential ambassador to Belarus; however, Belarus maintains an embassy in Islamabad since 2014.
Pakistan and Bosnia have a free trade agreement.
Pakistan and Egypt, both being Muslim countries, share cordial relations.
Pakistan and Fiji maintain formal diplomatic relationship, they have diplomatic missions in each other's countries.
Pakistan and France have high levels of diplomatic meetings and are in good terms with one another.
Pakistan and Lesotho maintain honorary consulates in each other's country.
Pakistan and Libya share warm relations characterized by mutual respect, expanding economic ties, and collaboration at multilateral fora.
Pakistan and Mongolia maintain cordinal diplomatic relationship.
Pakistan and Suriname both maintain friendly and cooperative relations.
Pakistan and Ukraine are also heavily cooperating with each other in aerospace engineering, aerospace technologies, bio-medical sciences and science and technology.
Pakistan claims that around 100 top level al-Qaeda leaders/operators were killed or arrested by the ISI.
Pakistan consistently figures near the top of the list of failed states year after year.
Pakistan consistently found themselves on the United States side of issues faced during the Cold War.
Pakistan established diplomatic relations with San Marino on 12 April 2006.
Pakistan established diplomatic relations with the United Kingdom on 14 August 1947.
Pakistan established full diplomatic relations with Bangladesh on 18 January 1976, and relations improved in the following decades.
Pakistan exports to Tonga in 2007 was T$11,655 (approximately US$7,000).
Pakistan extended diplomatic recognition to the Kyrgyz Republic on 20 December 1991.
Pakistan fully supports the proposal of the creation of an independent Palestinian state.
Pakistan had a pivotal role in the plea for independence for Morocco; in 1952, Moroccan delegate Ahmed Bulferg attempted to address the UN security council and was shut down by the French.
Pakistan had the only three-tier integrated bottom-up common-representational local government system, until it was adapted for another country in 2003.
Pakistan had wished to foment an 'Islamic Revolution' which would transcend national borders covering Pakistan, Afghanistan and Central Asia.
Pakistan has a High Commission in Abuja and Nigeria has a High Commission in Islamabad, as well as a consulate-general in Karachi.
Pakistan has a High Commission in Port Louis and Mauritius has a High Commission in Islamabad.
Pakistan has a High Commission located in Wellington whilst New Zealand has a consulate-general in Karachi.
Pakistan has a complex taxation system of more than 70 unique taxes administered by at least 37 tax collection institutions of the Government of Pakistan.
Pakistan has a dual system of civil and sharia law.
Pakistan has a parliamentary system in which, the executive and legislature are elected directly by public voting in constituencies on a first-past-the-post system through a secret ballot.
Pakistan has also been a steadfast supporter of Lebanon particularly when it was invaded by Israel.
Pakistan has also declined to recognise the state of Israel until the "liberation of Palestine" will take place.
Pakistan has also lobbied for greater representation of the Arab League within the United Nation Security Council.
Pakistan has an embassy in Bucharest and an honorary consulate in Iaşi.
Pakistan has an embassy in Niamey, although Niger does not maintain a permanent embassy in Islamabad.
Pakistan has an embassy in Phnom Penh although Cambodia does not have an embassy in Pakistan.
Pakistan has an embassy in Yangon, and Burma has an embassy in Islamabad.
Pakistan has an honorary consulate in Montevideo.
Pakistan has been providing training courses to Libyan officers.
Pakistan has been ruled by both democratic and military governments.
Pakistan has been supplying military equipment to the Sri Lanka Armed Forces since 1999.
Pakistan has brotherly relations with Malaysia.
Pakistan has close bilateral ties with China and the Muslim world, including Turkey, Azerbaijan, and the Gulf Arab countries.
Pakistan has its High Commission in Kuala Lumpur, and Malaysia has its High Commission in Islamabad.
Pakistan has pledged since 2009 to assist in military training and intelligence to form a joint terror fighting force for their two countries.
Pakistan has two classes of courts: the superior (or higher) judiciary and the subordinate (or lower) judiciary.
Pakistan has used the OIC as a forum for Enlightened Moderation, its plan to promote a renaissance and enlightenment in the Islamic world.
Pakistan is a federal republic with three tiers of government: national, provincial and local.
Pakistan is a multiparty democracy where several political parties compete for seats in the National and Provincial assemblies.
Pakistan is also a member of the Coffee Club to oppose Indian membership in the United Nations Security Council.
Pakistan is also an important member of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC).
Pakistan is an active member of the Commonwealth of Nations, Organization of Islamic Cooperation, and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
Pakistan is neither a member nor an observer of the Arab League, but the two entities share a strong relationship.
Pakistan is represented in Zimbabwe by an embassy in Harare.
Pakistan is represented through its High Commission in Ottawa and consulates in Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver.
Pakistan is subdivided into four provinces, one territory, and one capital territory.
Pakistan joined Non-Aligned Movement in 1979.
Pakistan lost 200-250 tanks, and India lost 200-300 tanks.
Pakistan maintain cordial relations with Mozambique.
Pakistan maintains a High Commission in Brunei, and Brunei has a High Commission in Islamabad, Pakistan.
Pakistan maintains a High Commission in Cape Town, and South Africa maintains a High Commission in Islamabad.
Pakistan maintains a consulate general in North Trinidad.
Pakistan maintains an embassy in Argentina which is accredited to Paraguay and a consulate in Asunción.
Pakistan maintains an embassy in Mexico City, and Mexico is accredited to Pakistan from its embassy in Tehran.
Pakistan maintains an honorary consulate in Guyana.
Pakistan maintains an honorary consulate in Kampala.
Pakistan maintains an honorary consulate in Kinshasa.
Pakistan maintains an honorary consulate in Madagascar.
Pakistan maintains an honorary consulate in Zagreb.
Pakistan maintains cordinal diplomatic relations with Iceland.
Pakistan maintains friendly diplomatic relations with Lithuania.
Pakistan officials often blame India and Afghanistan for supporting terrorism in Pakistan.
Pakistan recognized Ukraine's independence in 1991.
Pakistan recognized independence of Azerbaijan 1991 (the second country after Turkey) and the two countries established full diplomatic relations in 1992.
Pakistan recognizes the Federal Government of Somalia as the official national government of Somalia.
Pakistan rejoined the Commonwealth in 1989.
Pakistan sent in UN Peacekeeping forces to the former Yugoslavia during the Yugoslav wars.
Pakistan signed the agreement to convene a convention for drafting a world constitution, leading to the establishment of the Constitution for the Federation of Earth in 1968.
Pakistan used to designate their High Commissioner to Australia as a non-residential High Commissioner to Fiji.
Pakistan uses a common law system, which was introduced during the colonial era, influenced by local medieval judicial systems based on religious and cultural practices.
Pakistan vigorously championed the right of self-determination for Muslims around the world.
Pakistan was a member of the Commonwealth from 1947 to 1956 under the name 'Dominion of Pakistan'.
Pakistan was a staunch supporter of Bosnia during the civil war.
Pakistan was founded in 1947 as a Dominion (an independent realm or kingdom) within the British Commonwealth.
Pakistan was one of the first countries to open its embassy in Baku.
Pakistan was one of the first countries to recognize Turkmenistan as an independent country in December 1991.
Pakistan was the first country to accord formal recognition to the UAE on its achieving independence.
Pakistan's 2013 elections took place on 11 May 2013 across the country.
Pakistan's 2018 elections took place on 25 July 2018 nationwide.
Pakistan's Parliamentary system was changed to a Semi-presidential government as a consequence.
Pakistan's ambassador to the USA is accredited as Pakistan's non-resident High Commissioner to Jamaica.
Pakistan's army had been able to withstand Indian pressure, but a continuation of the fighting would only have led to further losses and ultimate defeat for Pakistan.
Pakistan's citizens have had serious Shia-Sunni discord.
Pakistan's decades-long rivalry and conflict with U.S. strategic partner India also poses difficulties for the country's efforts to improve relations with the United States.
Pakistan's democracy has no recall method.
Pakistan's diplomatic relations with Albania are very cordial given that Albania is the, and only European country with OIC membership.
Pakistan's embassy in Zimbabwe is also accredited to Congo.
Pakistan's foreign policy is meant to formalize and define its interactions with foreign nations and standardize interactions with organizations, corporations and individual citizens.
Pakistan's former military ruler and President Gen. Pervez Musharraf explained in his 2006 autobiography, In the Line of Fire: “We have captured 689 and handed over 369 to the United States.
Pakistan's independent judicial system began under the British Raj, and its concepts and procedures resemble those of Anglo-Saxon countries.
Pakistan's mainstream media reported on the October 2021 constitutional rift between civil and armed wings over the appointment of the director general post only after ministers spoke on the matter.
Pakistan's military doctrine emphasizes a proactive defense, also referred to as "offensive-defense".
Pakistan's provinces are divided into districts called zillas in local languages (counterpart to a county in US or UK terminology).
Pakistan's relations with India have improved recently and this has opened up Pakistan's foreign policy to issues beyond security.
Pakistan's second constitution was approved in 1962.
Pakistan's system is the one that applies an integrated federated systemic framework most comprehensively, so far.
Pakistan's total exports to Nepal are worth US$1.631 million while Nepal's exports to Pakistan tally US$3.166 million.
Pakistan's two main opposition parties, the PPP and the PML (N) won the majority of seats in the election.
Pakistan, Iran and China have also established a 'Trilateral Consultation' to discuss counter-terrorism and security.
Pakistani Foreign Minister Sir Zafaullah Khan arranged for Bulferg to receive a Pakistani nationality, and the latter was then able to address the UN in favor of Morocco's independence.
Pakistani government estimates that Pakistan has suffered total losses of $126.79 billion since 9/11 attacks.
Pakistani law mandates that any "blasphemies" of the Quran are to be met with punishment.
Pakistani newspaper, Dawn news, reports that Pakistan's economic losses due to war on terrorism declined by 62% from 2014 to 2018.
Pakistani officials state that the terrorism in Pakistan will decline more once the fencing of Pakistan-Afghanistan border is complete.
Pakistani politicians have historically voiced concerns over judicial involvement in governance, often calling for a recalibration of power between the judiciary and the legislature.
Pakistani troops were also deployed to Sudan as part of the UN peacekeeping force during the second Sudanese civil war.
Pakistani troops were deployed by the UN's Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA) to CAR in 2014, as a peacekeeping force.
Paraguay maintains an embassy in Egypt accredited to Pakistan and an honorary consulate in Islamabad.
Pasban-e-Aman Force Personnel were given anti-terrorism training near Simly Dam, by September 15, 2023 three batches had finished their training.
Pashtuns who have advocated for human rights for their ethnic group have been attacked and murdered.
Payment of bribes in order to escape and avoid charges was also commonplace; 31% of 4,224 respondents reported paying bribes to the police.
Pervez Musharraf gained political support from PML (Q) as their president in 2004 and 2007; both elections were controversial as leading parties PPP and PML (N) boycotted the elections.
Police reported over 400 calls made by PTI leaders, including Imran Khan, instructing rioters to target these areas.
Police was observed as the most corrupt sector in a 2013 survey by Transparency International (TI).
Political interference opened doors for corrupt political practices to seep into the nation's economic planning processes.
Polling stations from Lahore (4 Seats) and Multan (1 Seat) have been declared sensitive.
Polls were postponed for the sixth seat in Lahore due to Nawaz Sharif's eligibility contest.
Popularly elected by direct elections in the parliament, the Prime minister is responsible for appointing a cabinet as well as running the government operations.
Powers to exercise the authority are limited to the ceremonial figurehead, and required to address the Parliament to give a direction for national policies before being informed of its key decisions.
Practically, those appointed on posts in direct appointment quota in each occupational group through the CSS Exam have a natural advantage.
Preemptive strikes against India led to another war in 1971, which freed East Pakistan and created Bangladesh.
Presently the Kohat Tunnel Project and the Ghazi Brotha Dam Project are being completed with the help of the Japanese private and government contractors.
President Ayub Khan invited Chief of Army Staff General Yahya Khan to enforce the martial law in the country.
President Bhutto created the current Constitution of Pakistan in 1973, transforming Pakistan into a parliamentary democracy, and reducing presidential powers to that of a ceremonial figurehead.
President General Pervez Musharraf addressed the Joint Session of the Parliament on 17 January 2004.
President Leghari unsuccessfully supported Chief Justice Sajjad Ali Shah— both of them resigned, ending the conflict between the Judiciary, the Executive, and the Parliament.
President Mr. Muhammad Rafiq Tarar was, however, allowed to continue in his office.
President Zia Ul Haq, Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Farooq Leghari used this constitutional provision to dissolve the elected Prime Minister's Government.
President Zia-ul-Haq appointed Mohammad Junejo as prime minister and assumed more powers through the constitutional amendment.
President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto called for a constitutional convention and invited the leaders of the all political parties to meet him on 17 April 1972.
President can impose governor rule in any province.
Previously, he was issued a show-cause notice for his comments against Salman Akram Raja.
Previously, the senior-most judge in the Supreme Court would automatically succeed as Chief Justice upon retirement of the incumbent at age 65.
Prime Minister Chaudhry Muhammad Ali and his government officials worked with the opposition parties in the country to formulate a constitution for Pakistan.
Prime Minister Imran Khan formed his cabinet, with key positions like Minister of Finance entrusted to Asad Umar and Minister of Foreign Affairs to Shah Mehmood Qureshi.
Prime Minister Imran Khan visited Moscow to meet President Vladimir Putin as Russia was launching the invasion of Ukraine.
Prime Minister Mir Zafarullah Khan Jamali resigned from his office on 26 June 2004.
Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif described the amendment as an assertion of legislative authority and a step toward restoring balance in Pakistan's constitutional structure.
Prime minister has only ministerial power regarding the appointment procedure.
Prime minister holds office by virtue of their ability to command the confidence of the National Assembly.
Prime ministerial powers have significantly grown with a delicate system of check and balance by each branch.
Princess Sarvath wife of Prince Hassan is originally a Pakistani.
Prior to 18th Constitutional Amendments, appointments to the Supreme Court of Pakistan were made by the President of Pakistan, on the recommendation of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.
Prior to August 1947, the British Army's recruiting administration had recruited the enlists from the districts of the Jhelum, Rawalpindi, and Campbellpur that dominated the recruitment flows.
Prior to the violence that resulted in deaths, Imran Khan asked his followers to take law into their own hands.
Problems with providing electricity was one of the major issues with the winning candidate, Nawaz Sharif, promising to reform electrical service and provide reliable service.
Promotion to the JCO ranks remains a powerful and influential incentive for that enlisted personnel desire not to attend the accredited four-year college.
Promulgation of 1956 constitution, Iskandar Ali Mirza became first President of Pakistan; he was also noted of being the first East-Pakistani Bengali president of Pakistan.
Proponents of Pakistan's "offensive-defense" doctrine argue that it offers several advantages.
Protests and injuries were reported at several locations across Pakistan.
Provided that there shall be no restriction on the number of terms for the office of the Prime Minister.
Provincial and local governments have arrested journalists and closed newspapers that report on matters perceived as socially offensive or critical of the government or military.
Provincial assembly elections were also postponed in the constituencies of PK-22 and PK-91 (both in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) due to the deaths of candidates there.
Provincial elections were held occasionally.
Provincial ratios of Standing Committee Chairs are: Balochistan 6:12, KP 3:31, Punjab 10:14, Sindh 2:17.
Public enterprises "became a device to extend political patronage to those that the regime favoured, to pay political debts, or to accumulate power".
Punjab, Sindh, and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) were all set to conduct the polls.
Punjabis argued that East Pakistan's majority was a consequence of the high percentage of Bengali Hindus in the province who were not involved in the state's decision-making processes.
Qatl e Amd (culpable homicide), rape, defamation dacoity etc.
Qaumi Assembly (English: National Assembly of Pakistan) is the lower house of the parliament.
Qualifications to be served as a supreme court justice are strictly imposed that are based on merit, personal intellectualism, and experiences as a judge in the high courts.
RCD became defunct after the Iranian Revolution, and a Pakistani-Turkish initiative led to the founding of the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO) in 1985.
Raja Pervaiz Ashraf became the prime minister and remained in office until 2013.
Rank are shortlisted by respective Services Headquarters and selected against this quota after the interview process.
Rape in Pakistan came to international attention after the politically sanctioned rape of Mukhtaran Bibi.
Ratified unanimously on 19 April 1973, the Constitution came into full effect on 14 August 1973.
Recently U.S. stopped military aid to Pakistan, which was about US$2 billion per year.
Relations between Pakistan and the Slovak Republic are cordial and friendly.
Relations between the two countries began when Pakistan recognized Kazakhstan on 20 December 1991.
Relations between the two countries strengthened after Cuba provided humanitarian assistance to the victims of the 2005 Kashmir earthquake.
Relations between these two countries have been strained in the past, because of Pakistan's close ties to America and its support for the Afghan rebels during the invasion by the USSR.
Religious minorities claimed that government actions to stem the problem were inadequate.
Reportedly, thousands of PTI workers have been arrested due to their alleged involvement in violent attacks on government institutions across the country after 9 May.
Reporters Without Borders has ranked Pakistan number 158 out of 180 countries listed in its Press Freedom Index of 2014.
Romania has an embassy in Islamabad and an honorary consulate in Lahore.
Rumors became more substantiated when Hameed attended the National Security Committee meeting instead of the expected new director general.
SCP; Urdu: عدالتِ عظمیٰ پاکستان, romanised: 'Adālat-e-'Uzmā Pākistān) is the supreme judicial authority and the apex court of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Satellite imagery from the Federal Bureau of Investigation suggest the existence of several terrorist camps in Pakistan, with at least one militant admitting to being trained in the country.
Saudi Arabia has also provided extensive religious and educational aid to Pakistan.
Saudi Arabia is the largest source of petroleum for Pakistan.
Saudi Arabia remains a major destination for immigration amongst Pakistanis, the number of whom living in Saudi Arabia stands between 900,000 and 1 million.
Schedules are lists in the Constitution that categorise and tabulate bureaucratic activity and policy of the Government.
Seats are allocated to each of the four provinces, the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, and Islamabad Capital Territory on the basis of population.
Secondly, comprehensive opinions and orders are bound together in paperback form in which the final version of the Court's opinions appears which is called a preliminary print of "Annual Report".
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said Pakistan is paying a "big price for supporting the U.S. war against terror groups.
Sectarian violence became a recurring feature of the Muharram month every year, with sectarian violence between Sunnis and Shias taking place in 1986 in Parachinar.
Security forces routinely violate human rights in the course of counter-terrorism operations in Balochistan and elsewhere.
Security responsibilities the Parliament House has been shifted from Frontier Corps to the new force.
Senator Dr. Noor Jahan Panezai took oath on 21 March 1988 as the only woman member in the Senate of Pakistan for the term from 1988-1991.
Senator Samia Usman Fatah took oath on 6 August 1973 as the only woman member in the first Senate of Pakistan who served for the term from 1973 to 1975.
Senators Asifa Farooqi and Aziza Humayun were elected on general seats and they took oath on 6 August 1975 as the only two women members out of 45 in the Senate for the term (1975-1977).
Senators Fiza Junejo and Nasreen Jalil were elected as the members of the Senate for the term (1994-1997).
Senators are elected for six year terms, half of which are elected every three years.
Senior PTI members lead the march from Lahore, the capital of Punjab.
Separate electorates for Hindus and Christians were established in 1985—a policy originally proposed by Islamist leader Abul A'la Maududi.
Serving as the ceremonial head of the federation, the president is bound to act on advice of the prime minister and the federal cabinet.
Session court judge has barred Imran Khan from contesting the elections for the time period of five years and sentenced him to three years in Prison.
Seven political parties were in the race.
Seventy-six (76) women candidates including sixteen on general seats and sixty on reserved seats were elected as members of the 13th National Assembly, serving for five years term from 2008 to 2013.
Several female journalists have reported harassment by party workers.
Several human rights groups have highlighted the increased phenomenon of Hindu girls, particularly in Karachi, being kidnapped from their families and forced to convert to Islam.
Several key ideas of the philosophy of John Locke and Islamic provisions on civil rights were interchanged in the Constitution.
Several leaked videos of persons supposed to be caught in the act of rigging the polls went viral and caught the eye of the mainstream media becoming topics of discussion in days to follow.
Several minority communities, such as the Ahmadiyya have been attacked in pogroms in Pakistan over the years.
Shah, and Justice Moh'd Haleem, who had the moderate and liberal leanings in their jurisprudence strongly disagreed with Bhutto's sentence of Capital punishment.
Sharif served two years to fulfill Imran Khan's term until the 2024 Pakistani General Election.
Sharif was removed from the party's presidency and the position was handed over to Dr. Kalsoum Nawaz, wife of Sharif.
Sharif was sentenced to 10 years in prison in July of 2018 for his involvement in real estate dealings in Panama.
Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) won eight provincial assembly seats, while the PPP won seven provincial seats.
She was also elected as the first woman Deputy Chairman Senate in 1991.
She was the youngest woman ever to be elected the Head of Government and the first woman to be elected as the Head of Government of a Muslim country.
Shehbaz Sharif was elected Prime Minister of Pakistan two days later, on 11 April.
Sheikh Mujib replied at a press conference on 21 February, asserting that "Our stand is absolutely clear.
Shops owned by Hindus were also attacked in Sukkur.
Shortly afterwards on 27 October 1958, General Ayub Khan deposed Mirza and declared himself president.
Similarly the size of the Senate was also increased from 63 to 87 members.
Similarly, in May, 1953 elections to the Provincial legislature of Sindh were held and they were also marred by accusations of rigging.
Similarly, the use of the word "Central" instead of "Federal" as well as the term "Superior" is also the legacy of the past.
Since 1947, Pakistan's relations have been difficult with neighbour India over regional issues.
Since 1970, Hungary has an embassy in Islamabad and an honorary consulate in Karachi.
Since 1993, the PML-N administrations have been widely described as the "authoritarian regime" by The Economist Democracy Index surveys.
Since 2001, the Pakistan military has launched a series of military offensives against terrorist groups in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA).
Since 2002, women politicians have notable representation in the federal as well as provincial assemblies.
Since 2014, terrorist attacks in Pakistan have significantly declined.
Since 2019, Pakistan has frozen in relations with India after India revoked the autonomy of its administered Kashmir.
Since July 2001, Pakistan has an embassy in Belgrade.
Since Pakistan's independence on 14 August 1947, women have been active participants in parliamentary politics.
Since Zia-ul Haq's presidency, Pakistan’s Constitution has seen shifts in military control.
Since establishment in 1947, Pakistan has had a non-symmetric federal government and is a federal parliamentary democratic republic.
Since its establishment in 1947, the Pakistan Army has traditionally followed the British regimental system and culture, and currently there are six organized infantry regiments.
Since most of the Arab world was undergoing a nationalist awakening at the time, there was little attraction to Pakistan's Pan-Islamic aspirations.
Since the 1970s, the traditional jirga-based law has also been in place in a few areas, and has influenced the country's judicial development.
Since the 2010s another American socialite Cynthia D. Ritchie claims her close association with Pakistani establishment.
Since the advent of the 21st century, Pakistan and China have strengthened their relations through bilateral trade, military agreements and supporting each other on key issues.
Since the amendment, the president's powers include the right to pardon and the ability to suspend or moderate any sentence passed by any court or authority.
Since the commencement of its organization in 1947, the army's functionality is broadly maintained in two main branches: Combat Arms and Administrative Services.
Since the liberalisation of electronic media in 2002, it has served as a major force in exposing corruption-related cases and scams.
Since the number of direct officers at the entry-level is few, their quotas in posts in BS-18 to BS-22 are fixed on the higher side; therefore, their promotions are fast-paced.
Since the opposition had not accepted the National Assembly elections result, they did not take oath.
Since the turn of the century non-Sunni minorities as the Kalash and Ismailis have been threatened with conversion to Islam or death by the Taliban and other radical Islamic groups.
Since then it has declined as result of selective military operations conducted by the Pakistan Army.
Since then, Pakistan has shifted from a Semi-presidential system to a purely parliamentary government.
Since then, these relations have gradually developed into very close and cordial ties.
Six (6) women politicians were elected on general seats for the 11th National Assembly and served as MNAs for the term from 1997 to 1999.
Six subjects are compulsory, and 6 are optional.
Six women politicians were elected on reserved seats as members of the 4th National Assembly from 1965 to 1969.
Sixty-nine (69) women out of 342 members are serving in the National Assembly of Pakistan.
Social media has also proved effective in identifying corruption in mainstream media, particularly in the case of the mediagate scandal.
Social media platforms including Twitter, Facebook and others were blocked in the country.
Societal actors also are responsible for human rights abuses.
Some 80,000 'basic democrats', as members of urban and regional councils, caucused to vote.
Some analysts say that it is because intelligence agencies around the world remain secretive.
Some consumers admitted to illegally reducing their utility bills, while others reported being harassed with inflated bills intended to solicit bribes.
Some federal and provincial courts and tribunals such as Services court, Income tax & excise court, Banking court and Boards of Revenue's Tribunals are as well established in all provinces.
Some observers said the rulings were a continuation of the Pakistani military's engineering to keep Khan out of power in the election.
Some of the Arab countries saw the 'Islamistan' project as a Pakistani attempt to dominate other Muslim states.
Some of the funding for TTP might have come from NDS.
Some well known Slovak companies like Matador and Mediprogress are active in Pakistan through their agents.
Some €50m were allegedly paid as "sweeteners" to various senior Pakistan Navy admirals and officers as well as the political leaders.
Soon after the elections, due to grave political differences, the Province of East Pakistan seceded from West Pakistan and became Bangladesh.
South Africa is also home to more than 2,500 Pakistanis.
Speaker Chaudhry Amir Hussain gave the ruling on 14 June 2003 that LFO is the part of the Constitution of Pakistan.
Specialised websites were set up to publish and archive material exposing corrupt malpractices throughout the many polling stations serving several constituencies.
Sri Lanka's ties with Pakistan have always been good, ever since Pakistan established its small mission in then-Ceylon (later Sri Lanka) in circa 1948–1949.
Stanton stated that he had been framed because he had rebuffed pressures to convert to Islam.
Stemming from the JIT investigation, and based on NAB's investigations, the court sentenced Nawaz Sharif to 10 years of imprisonment in relation to the Avenfield Apartments case.
Still others use schools, but only a small minority live in approximately 30 official camps, mainly in the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.
Stipulations set by the constitution provide a delicate check and balance of sharing powers between executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the government.
Submitted its considerations on 6 May 1961, Ayub Khan altered the entire version of the constitution which was entirely different from the one recommended by Chief Justice Muhammad Shahabuddin.
Subordinate judges are also promoted from senior civil judges on a seniority basis.
Subsequently, Ali Amin Gandapur was elected as Chief Minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa on PTI's behalf.
Subsequently, Bilawal Bhutto Zardari became foreign minister after the political crisis-a position previously held by his grandfather, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, and Hina Rabbani Khar.
Subsequently, the nonconfidence movement was launched in the Provincial Assembly of Punjab on 16 April 2022, and Hamza Shahbaz became Chief Minister of Punjab.
Succumbing to domestic pressure to restore the Constitution, President Zia-ul-Haq held a referendum (1984) and called for general elections in 1985.
Succumbing to internal and international pressure, however, Khan held the 1965 Pakistani presidential election.
Such Islamization includes blasphemy laws, which make it dangerous for religious minorities to express themselves freely and engage freely in religious and cultural activities.
Such an announcement led the PPP to demand the removal of the National Assembly session, or the opening session to be postponed.
Such training usually lasts for two years until the cadets are able to meet their graduation requirements from the academy.
Sudan maintains a positive relationship with Pakistan on the basis of religion, as they are both Muslim-majority states.
Sunni militant groups operate with impunity across Pakistan, as law enforcement officials either turn a blind eye or appear helpless to prevent widespread attacks against religious minorities.
Supporters claim that the judiciary's previous involvement in political matters had, at times, led to decisions undermining elected governments and democracy itself.
Suspects are frequently detained without charge and or convicted without a fair trial.
Suspending the Constitution in 1977, General Zia-ul-Haq took over the presidency in 1978.
Syed Salahuddin, led to the events that created armed struggle in the valley.
Syed Yousaf Raza Gilani was elected the Prime Minister of Pakistan by the house on 24 March 2008 and unanimously obtained the Vote of Confidence from the house on 29 March 2008.
Syed Yousaf Raza Gillani took oath of the office of the Speaker National Assembly on 17 October 1993.
Syed Zafar Ali Shah, MNA and Illahi Bukhsh Soomro, Speaker National Assembly, challenged the suspension orders in the Supreme Court.
TV stations and news papers are routinely shut down for publishing any reports critical of the government or the military.
Taking personal responsibility for the political isolation and devastation of Pakistan after the fall of East Pakistan, President Yahya Khan stepped down and ceded power to Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
Tales of high-scale corruption cases also maligned her image in the country and was dismissed from her post by her own hand-picked president in 1996.
Technically there are 26 amendments but 23 amendments were made in constitution and three were not passed by the parliament as the three amendments collapsed.
Tehsils may contain town or municipalities.
Ten seats were exclusively reserved for minorities to be filled through separate electorate system.
Ten women were elected on reserved seats, while Begum Naseem Abdul Wali Khan and Begum Naseem Wali Khan were elected on general seats as a result of the 1977 Pakistani general election.
Tension reached a melting point when after he was brazenly arrested from the high court by the paramilitary forces, Pakistan Rangers, which later was termed as illegal by the Supreme court.
Tensions between Iran and Pakistan intensified in 1998, when Iran accused Pakistan of war crimes as Pakistani warplanes bombarded Afghanistan's last Shia stronghold in support of the Taliban.
Terrorism in Pakistan originated after Pakistan supported the Afghan mujahideen during the Soviet–Afghan War, and the subsequent civil war that erupted in Afghanistan.
Terrorism in Pakistan, according to the Ministry of Interior, poses a significant threat to the people of Pakistan.
That Constitution provided for a Presidential form of Government with a unicameral legislature.
That Constitution was promulgated on 23 March 1956, which provided for a parliamentary form of Government with a unicameral legislature.
That is to say, it is not immune to pressures and influences from the Executive.
That's based pretty much on Pakistan's operations in North Waziristan this entire summer-fall," he said, acknowledging the effectiveness of Pakistan's military offensive in North Waziristan.
The "Pakistan Government" or "Government of Pakistan" are often used in official documents representing the federal government collectively.
The 'MQM' contested the 1988 elections under the name Muhajir Qaumi Mahaz, it boycotted the 1993 National elections.
The 13th Amendment in 1997 restored the prime minister’s authority over appointments, but the 17th Amendment in 2003, under General Pervez Musharraf, gave the president more control.
The 14-member Supreme Court bench did not, however, apply the sanction to judges who took oath under the 1999 PCO.
The 18th Amendment in 2010 once again made military appointments subject to the prime minister’s advice.
The 18th Amendment in 2010 restored Parliamentary Democracy in the country, and reduced presidency to a ceremonial position.
The 18th Amendment in 2010 restored Parliamentary Democracy in the country, and reduced the presidency to a ceremonial position.
The 1950s reforms in the government administration, the constitutional law and jurisprudence in Pakistan have been greatly influenced by the United States Of America ' legal system.
The 1956 constitution provided for Parliamentary form of government with all the executive powers in the hands of Prime Minister.
The 1962 Constitution was abrogated on 25 March 1969.
The 1962 constitution was suspended in 1969 and abrogated in 1972.
The 1970 Assembly framed the 1973 Constitution, which was unanimously passed on 12 April and promulgated on 14 August 1973.
The 1970 Pakistani general election, was the first direct general election after independence of Pakistan from British India.
The 1973 Constitution also created certain institutions such as the Shariat Court and the Council of Islamic Ideology to channel the interpretation and application of Islam.
The 1973 Constitution provides for a parliamentary form of Government with a bicameral legislature, comprising the National Assembly and the Senate.
The 1973 Constitution provides for a parliamentary form of government where the executive authority of the state vests with the Prime Minister.
The 1973 constitution abolished all classes in the civil service as the concept of occupational groups was introduced.
The 1973 constitution was the first in Pakistan to be framed by elected representatives.
The 1977 elections are widely regarded as rigged.
The 1985 elections, initially slated for 1977, were postponed following Zia-ul-Haq's coup, pledging elections within 90 days.
The 1997 Anti-Terrorism Act, which established Anti Terrorism Court, and subsequent anti-terrorist legislation, has arisen concerns about the protection of fundamental rights.
The 1997 general elections saw the centre-right, Pakistan Muslim League (N), or PML (N), ging the exclusive mandate in the country and supermajority in the parliament.
The 1999 PCO and decisions made under it were given constitutional protection by Seventeenth amendment.
The 2008–2013 PPP-led coalition government was criticised as being the most corrupt in the country's history.
The 2013 Pakistani general election was the first election in the country after which there was a constitutional transfer of power from one civilian government to another.
The 2013 Pakistani general election were the first elections in the country where there was a constitutional transfer of power from one civilian government to another.
The 2018 Pakistani general election was majorly contested between PML-N and PTI.
The 2022 Azadi March (Urdu: آزادی مارچ, romanized: Āzādī Mārch, lit.
The 2022–2025 Pakistan political unrest is a series of political crises after the ousting of former prime minister Imran Khan through a no-confidence motion at 12 p.m., 10 April 2022.
The 2024 elections happened amidst allegations of pre-poll rigging by the military establishment in favour of the coalition led by Nawaz Sharif's PML-N.
The 27th Constitutional Amendment Bill, introduced in Pakistan’s Senate in November 2025, proposed major changes to the military leadership structure by amending Article 243.
The 8th Amendment turned Pakistan into a semi-presidential republic and in the period between 1985 and 2010, the executive power was shared by president and prime minister.
The 8th Amendment turned Pakistan into a semi-presidential republic and in the period between 1985 and 2010, the executive power was shared by the president and prime minister.
The Act made the existing Constituent Assemblies, the dominion legislatures.
The Ali brothers had sought to project Pakistan as the natural leader of the Islamic world, in large part due to its large manpower and military strength.
The Armed Forces has historically played an influential role in the country's politics, although it has declined in recent years.
The Army basketball program regularly provides the Pakistan national basketball team with players.
The Army recruits from all religions in Pakistan including Hindus, Sikhs, Zoroastrians, Christians who have held command-level positions.
The Army runs the Fauji Foundation which sold Khoski Sugar Mill in 2004 for PKR 300 million despite receiving the highest bid of PKR 387 million.
The Army was officially established in August 1947 after the Partition of India.
The Army's corps are divided into three regional-level commands which are assigned for defending the territories of Pakistan.
The Article 58(2)(b) was later on omitted from the Constitution vide 13th Amendment in the Constitution in April 1997.
The Assembly also formed a Constitution Committee on 17 April 1972 to prepare the first draft for framing a Constitution.
The Assembly was again dissolved by the then President Ghulam Ishaq Khan, under Article 58(2)(b) on 18 April 1993.
The Assembly was dissolved by President Farooq Ahmad Khan Laghari on 5 November 1996.
The Assembly was later dissolved by President Ghulam Ishaq Khan under Article 58(2)(b) of the Constitution of Pakistan, on 6 August 1990.
The Assembly was later dissolved on the advice of the Prime Minister on 18 July 1993.
The Associated Press reported that "the president said Mullen's statement 'expressed frustration' over the insurgent safe havens in Pakistan.
The Awami League launched a non-cooperation movement as they virtually controlled the entire province.
The Balochistan Bar Association stated, amidst widespread multiparty protests in the province, that the 2024 elections were "a deep conspiracy against the supremacy of constitution and law".
The Bar is governed by an executive council consisting of 22 elected members with an elected president and a secretary.
The Blasphemy law, for example, allows life imprisonment or the death penalty for contravening Islamic principles, but legislation was passed in October 2004 to attempt to counter misuse of the law.
The British Empire divided the Raj into two parts, India and Pakistan.
The British officers in the Pakistan Army had to established the wide range of schools to provide education and to train the army personnel in order to raise the dedicated and professional army.
The British rulers realized that the Hindus and Muslims of India remained two separate and distinct nations and socio-cultural entities.
The British rulers were left with no option but to eventually accept the demand of the Muslims of India.
The British used to rule the native population through Indian Civil Service (ICS) and most of the officers in ICS were British themselves.
The CDA Engineering and the Environmental Protection Agency supervised the engineering the Supreme Court's monument and civil works infrastructure throughout its lengthy construction since the 1960s.
The CSS Aspirants collected funds from their pocket money.
The CSS Exam has two major parts: a written test, which takes place in February or March, and a panel interview, which takes place in November.
The CSS Examinations are held at the start of every year.
The Cabinet Ministers chair the Cabinet and are further assisted by the Cabinet Secretary of Pakistan, whose appointment comes from the Civil Services of Pakistan.
The Cabinet can have a maximum of 11 percent (50 members including the Prime Minister) of the total strength of the Parliament.
The Central Secretariat and the Parliament Lodges of the Pakistan Parliament play important roles in recruiting strong state candidates.
The Central Superior Services (CSS) is the civil service authority of Pakistan under the jurisdiction of the Pakistani federal government.
The Chief Election Commissioner is appointed by the president, in his/her discretion, for a term of 3 years.
The Chief Minister heads the provincial government.
The Chief of Army Staff controls and commands the army at all levels of operational command, and is assisted the number of Principal Staff Officers (PSOs) who are three-star rank generals.
The Chinese cooperation and further assistance with the Pakistan Army is vital in designing, vehicular construction, and material manufacturing of the main battle tanks.
The Civil Government, which came to power in December 1971 pursuant to 1970 elections, gave the nation an interim Constitution in the year 1972.
The Civil Service of Pakistan selects only 7.5% of the applicants by merit, education, qualification and experience.
The Coalition For Women In Journalism founding director Kiran Nazish said: “This case crystalizes the multi-layered dangers women journalists face in many countries, Pakistan being one of them.
The Commission submitted its report to the government on 29 April 1961.
The Constitution allows the judges to be appointed at the Supreme Court regardless of colour, race, and religious sect.
The Constitution also encapsulates provisions stipulating the legal system's compliance with Islamic injunctions contained in the Quran and Sunnah.
The Constitution designates the president of Pakistan as a ceremonial Head of State who is to represent the unity of the state.
The Constitution dictates general elections be held every five years, when the National Assembly has completed its term or has been dissolved, and Senatorial elections be held every six years.
The Constitution discusses the possibility of an acting president.
The Constitution does not allow for the dissolution of the Senate.
The Constitution does not empower the President to dissolve the National Assembly.
The Constitution does not fix the number of justices of the Supreme Court, though it can be fixed by Parliament through an act signed by the President.
The Constitution grants both men and women the right to run for presidency.
The Constitution grants powers to the Supreme Court to make judicature transfers.
The Constitution grants the commissioner the security of tenure and financial autonomy.
The Constitution of 1962 envisaged a Federal State with Presidential form of government, with the National Assembly at the centre and the Provincial Assemblies in the Provinces.
The Constitution of Pakistan (Urdu: آئینِ پاکستان, romanised: Ā'īn-e-Pākistān; also known as the 1973 Constitution) is the supreme law of Pakistan.
The Constitution of Pakistan does not set the legal name for the civil service, and there is no service named "Central Superior Services of Pakistan" (or CSS).
The Constitution of Pakistan entrusts the superior judiciary with the obligation to preserve, protect and defend the constitution.
The Constitution of Pakistan established and constituted the federal government of four provinces of federation of nation-state, known as State of Pakistan.
The Constitution of Pakistan lays down separate services for the central government and the provincial governments.
The Constitution of Pakistan lays down the fundamentals and working of the Pakistani judiciary.
The Constitution of Pakistan lists several requirements for members of the National Assembly in Article 62.
The Constitution of Pakistan of 1956 reserved 10 seats for women in the unicameral Parliament with five seats each from East and West Pakistan.
The Constitution of Pakistan of 1962 introduced by President Ayub Khan, turned the country into a presidential republic without direct elections.
The Constitution of Pakistan of 1962 reserved six seats for women in the National Assembly with three seats each from East and West Pakistan.
The Constitution of Pakistan provides for fundamental rights.
The Constitution of Pakistan recognizes equality between men and women (Art.
The Constitution of Pakistan requires that the prime minister be a member of the National Assembly.
The Constitution of Pakistan sets the principle qualifications that the candidate must meet to be eligible to the office of the president.
The Constitution provides that there shall be a Cabinet headed by the Prime Minister, which is collectively responsible to the National Assembly.
The Constitution requires the president to be a "Muslim of not less than forty five (45) years of age".
The Constitution states that all laws are to conform with the injunctions of Islam as laid down in the Quran and Sunnah.
The Constitution truly maintained a delicate balance between traditionalists and modernists and reflected heavy compromises on fundamental religious rights in the country.
The Constitution ultimately established a bicameral Parliament, with the National Assembly as the lower house and the Senate as the upper house.
The Constitution was written in the point of representing the conservative Islam as well as reflecting a heavy compromise over the religious rights and humanism ideas, advocated by the PPP.
The Constitutional provision of 20 special seats for women lapsed in 1990, thus decreased the Assembly strength from 237 to 217.
The Council could formulate and regulate the policy in the Part II of the Legislative List.
The Court complex judges' chambers, a separate building consisting of the law library, various meeting spaces, and auxiliary services including a lecture auditorium.
The Court in its judgement asked the government to complete its agenda and then hand over powers to the elected government.
The Court in its judgment on 12 May 2000 validated the military takeover by giving three years time frame to the government, starting from 12 October 1999.
The Court ordered for a Joint Investigation Team to be formed for the inquiry into allegations of money laundering, corruption and contradictory statements made by the Sharif family.
The Court ordered her to be sent to a Women's protection centre.
The Court underscored that such practices violate the principles of due process under Article 10A and the constitutional right to dignity under Article 14.
The Defence Housing Authority (DHA) and Askari Real Estate are prominent examples of the Pakistan Army's large-scale real estate ventures.
The Director General of the ISI is among the most powerful posts in Pakistan.
The Director-General reports directly to both the Prime Minister and the Chief of Army Staff.
The District Governor or Zila Nazim used to be the executive head of districts until 2010, when the government shifted power to the District Coordination Officers.
The Dominion of Pakistan was created as a result of the Pakistan Movement in 1947.
The ECP announced on 25 May 2022 that the by-elections would be held on 17 July 2022.
The ECP has declared 1304 polling stations sensitive and 690 highly sensitive.
The EU Election Observation Mission to Pakistan maintained, however, that a "level playing field" was not afforded to all parties and that the process was not "as good as that of 2013".
The Economist Intelligence Unit rated Pakistan an "authoritarian regime" in 2023.
The Election Commission of Pakistan is a constitutionally-established institution chaired by an appointed and designated Chief Election Commissioner, supervising general elections.
The Electoral College for this Assembly was the Provincial Assemblies of respective Provinces.
The Electoral College is composed of elected senators, members of the National Assembly, and provincial assemblies.
The European Union Election Observation Mission said that no rigging had been found during the election, and polling was termed to be "transparent".
The Executive branch consists of the Cabinet and is led by the Prime Minister.
The FPSC conducts examinations that test the candidate's knowledge of current affairs, English, and various analytical abilities.
The Federal Cabinet consists of ministers, ministers of state, and advisers.
The Federal Government is Subject to the Constitution.
The Federal Ministers and Ministers of State are appointed from among the members of Parliament.
The Federal Public Service Commission conducts and supervises the exams.
The Federal Public Service Commission holds the combined competitive exam annually under the title advertised as exam for "Central Superior Services"— the term of colonial days which survived reforms.
The Federal Shariat Court (FSC) of Pakistan is a court which has the power to examine and determine whether the laws of the country comply with Shari'a law.
The Federal system had been curtailed by allowing the Provincial Governors to be appointed directly by the president.
The Finance Minister of Pakistan presents the annual federal budget in the Parliament in the midst of the year, and it has to be passed by both houses of the Parliament.
The Foreign Minister of Pakistan is the official charged with state-to-state diplomacy, although the Prime minister maintains an ultimate authority over foreign policy.
The Freedom House also commented that the military exerts enormous influence over security and policy issues, intimidates the press, and enjoys impunity for indiscriminate or extralegal use of force.
The GCM's meetings are generally held at the Jinnah Convention Centre in Islamabad.
The General elections for the eighth National Assembly was held on 16 November 1988.
The General elections for the ninth National Assembly was held on 24 October 1990.
The Government in return, went to the Federal Court, where the famous judgment was given by the then Chief Justice Muhammad Munir, according to which Maulvi Tamizuddin lost the case.
The Governors appointed by President after consulting the Prime minister, act only as representatives of federal government in the province and do not have any part in running the government.
The Hall was renovated on the orders of the Speaker and inaugurated by the Prime Minister of Pakistan on 3 November 1996.
The Harkat-ul-Mujahideen was founded in the 1980s by the ISI to fight against Indian interests.
The Hazara community is an ethnic community from central Afghanistan of Hazarajat that have a mostly strong Shia religious identity.
The Human Rights groups have reported that the cases of forced conversion are increasing.
The IDA occupied 55 seats, but an influential leader, Nawaz Sharif, chose to serve the Chief Minister of Punjab Province.
The IJI competed against the leftist alliance, known as the People's Democratic Alliance (PDA), which had contained the Pakistan People's Party and the TeI.
The IRW has since been replaced by the Insaf Research Team.
The ISI allegedly have links to the Haqqani network and contributed to their funding.
The ISI also helped with the founding of the group Jaish-e-Mohammed.
The ISI has been accused of having close ties to Lashkar-e-Taiba, who carried out the attacks in Mumbai in 2008.
The ISI has been accused of supporting Taliban forces and recruiting and training mujahideen to fight in Afghanistan and Kashmir.
The ISI has been accused of using designated terrorist groups and militants to conduct proxy wars against its neighbors.
The ISI has strong links with jihadist groups, particularly in Afghanistan and Kashmir.
The ISI is also accused of supporting pro independence militias in Jammu and Kashmir while Pakistan denies all such claims, or says it gives them moral support only.
The ISI is headquartered in Pakistan's capital, Islamabad.
The ISI reports to its agency executive which is the Director-General of Inter-Services Intelligence.
The ISI supported Al-Qaeda during the war along with the CIA against the Soviet government, through the Taliban, and it is believed by some that there is still contact between Al-Qaeda and the ISI.
The ISI's black ops unit is the Covert Action Division.
The Insaf Student Federation (ISF) serves as the official student wing of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf.
The Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) (Urdu: انٹر سروسز انٹیلی جنس) is the foreign intelligence agency agency of Pakistan.
The Inter-Services Intelligence service would report directly to the Prime Minister of Pakistan, and the defence budget would be audited by the government.
The Inter-Services Intelligence was established in 1948 by officers of the Pakistan Army after the First Kashmir War, the first of several Indo-Pakistani wars and conflicts.
The Interim Constitution Act provides for two executive forums—the Azad Kashmir Government in Muzaffarabad and the Azad Kashmir Council in Islamabad.
The Interim Constitution dealt in detail with the distribution of powers between the Centre and the Provinces.
The Interim Constitution of Pakistan was adopted here in April, 1972.
The International Commission of Jurists also expressed concern over judicial independence by arguing that the appointing body should not be under the direct control of the executive.
The Islamic Republic of Pakistan emerged as an independent country through the partition of India in August 1947 and was admitted as a United Nations member state in September 1947.
The Islamic Republic of Pakistan, established diplomatic relationship with the Republic of Tajikistan in 1992, but cooperation between these two countries started from 1991.
The Israeli pilot later succumbed to wounds he sustained during ejection.
The Joint Signal Intelligence Bureau (JSIB) provides support with communications to groups in Jammu and Kashmir.
The Judicial branch forms with the composition of the Supreme Court as an apex court, alongside the high courts and other inferior courts.
The Kashmir War had exposed weaknesses in intelligence gathering, sharing, and coordination between military branches and Pakistani Intelligence Bureau (IB) and Military Intelligence (MI).
The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Right to Information Bill was passed in the provincial assembly on 31 October 2013.
The Leader of the House is the highest-ranking representative of the majority party in the National Assembly, usually the Prime Minister.
The Leader of the Opposition is the highest-ranking representative of the main opposition party.
The Legislatures, both at center and in provinces were unicameral.
The Local government functions at the basic level.
The Majlis-e-Shoora shall reconsider the bill in a joint sitting.
The Maldives and Pakistan are culturally very close in sharing a Sunni majority.
The Members of the National Assembly are to be elected by direct and free vote in accordance with law.
The Military Government appointed a Constitution Commission in February 1960 which framed the 1962 Constitution.
The MoU on Bilateral Political Consultations between Pakistan and Libya was signed on 2 May 2009.
The Mohtasib is empowered to award compensation to those who have suffered loss or damage as a result of maladministration.
The Muslim League of the Indian subcontinent had, since the middle of twentieth century, demanded for a separate homeland on the basis of the Two-nation theory.
The Muslims of Guyana provided moral support for the Independence of Pakistan.
The National Assembly can also be summoned by the Speaker of the National Assembly on a request made by one-fourth of the total membership of the National Assembly.
The National Assembly can be dissolved at the initiative of the Prime Minister.
The National Assembly can only be dissolved by the President of Pakistan on the Prime Minister of Pakistan advice, it cannot be dissolved by the Prime Minister alone.
The National Assembly consists of 342 Seats including 60 seats reserved for Women and 10 Seats reserved for Non-Muslims.
The National Assembly consists of 342 members.
The National Assembly has 336 members, including 60 seats reserved for women and 10 for Non-Muslims, as per Article 51.
The National Assembly has 336 seats, 266 of which are directly elected, 60 are reserved for women and a further 10 for religious minorities5.
The National Assembly has an edge over the Senate by legislating exclusively on money matters.
The National Assembly is divided into sessions.
The National Assembly is elected for a five-year term based on adult franchise and one person, one vote.
The National Assembly makes laws for the Federation in respect of the powers enumerated in the Federal Legislative list.
The National Assembly meets on the twenty-first day after a general election (at least every five years) unless the president calls for a vote of no confidence.
The National Assembly of Pakistan is the country's sovereign legislative body.
The National Assembly of Pakistan,[a] also referred to as Aiwān-ē-Zairīñ,[b] is the lower house of the bicameral Parliament of Pakistan, with the upper house being the Senate.
The National Council is responsible for electing central office-bearers.
The National Council serves as the governing body of the PTI.
The National Intelligence Coordination Committee (NICC) of Pakistan is headed by the Director-General of Inter-Services Intelligence.
The Objectives Resolution affirmed the role of democracy and contained religious provisions to enable society to adhere to the teachings of the Quran and Sunnah.
The Objectives Resolution has henceforth been inserted as a preamble into each of Pakistan's subsequent constitutions.
The Official Residence and the Workplace of the President is Aiwan-e-Sadr— the presidential palace located in northeastern Islamabad.
The PDM is political movement founded in September 2020, which is based on allegations of rigging in the 2018 Pakistani general election, which Imran Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf won.
The PML government was short-lived and soon its government fell in the aftermath of the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971.
The PML was presided over by Fatima Jinnah, who actively participated in presidential elections held in 1965 against Muhammad Ayub Khan.
The PML(Z) was also merged into the PTI.
The PML, including Sharif and Hussain, were a conglomerate of diverse views and had provided large capital for the Muslim League's financial expenses.
The PML-N and Sharif himself were shocked when they learned the news of Benazir Bhutto's dismissal.
The PML-N appealed to the Supreme Court, which then restored Sharif's government on 26 May.
The PML-N called for the impeachment of President Pervez Musharraf, and successfully ousted him from the presidency and exiled him to the United States in 2008.
The PML-N charged Benazir Bhutto with corruption, stagnation, and endangering national security.
The PML-N gained national prominence in the 1993 parliamentary elections and occupied 73 seats in the state parliament.
The PML-N government passed the Thirteenth and the Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of Pakistan to stabilize its mandate and strengthen its position.
The PML-N is ideologically close to the military and holds common beliefs on national security.
The PML-N was still part of the Islami Jamhoori Ittehad (IJI) and participated, under the leadership of Nawaz Sharif, in the 1990 general elections.
The PML-N's leadership remains an avid supporter of Indian-held Kashmir, and numerous times it had made it clear that the party will "never compromise this long standing position on Kashmir dispute".
The PML-N, the clear winner on 30 constituencies and still competing on 10 Punjab Assembly seats, suddenly came up winning in about 137 seats in total.
The PPP also suffered due to internal factions, one of which was led by Murtaza Bhutto.
The PPP and PML (N) formed the new coalition government with Yousaf Raza Gillani as Prime Minister of Pakistan.
The PPP threatened to stage a large scale general strike all over the country.
The PPP was not willing to dilute the authority of the federal government in spite of assuring full provincial autonomy for all the provinces of Pakistan.
The PRC has provided economic, military, and technical assistance to Pakistan, and each country considers the other a close strategic ally.
The PTI accused the body of suppressing its presence on social media.
The PTI advocated the establishment of South Punjab and Gilgit Baltistan as formal provinces of Pakistan.
The PTI alleged that this was in violation of article 63(a) of the Pakistani constitution.
The PTI also raised issue of religious tolerance and greater representation for minorities.
The PTI hopes to have a relationship with the US that would be based on "self-dignity and respect" and promised to stop all foreign aid to Pakistan.
The PTI proposed civilian control of Pakistan's military.
The PTI ranks among the three major Pakistani political parties alongside the Pakistan Muslim League–Nawaz (PML–N) and the Pakistan People's Party (PPP).
The PTI terms itself an anti–status quo movement advocating an Islamic democracy centred on egalitarianism.
The PTI was banned from using its cricket bat icon and its candidates were forced to run as independents.
The PTI's goal is to transform Pakistan into an "Islamic welfare state" that creates an equal society based on Medina state (Riyasat-e-Madinah).
The PTI-led Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government, known as the Pervez Khattak Administration presented a balanced, tax-free budget for the fiscal year 2013–14.
The Pakistan Administrative Service, previously known as the District Management Group before 1 June 2012, is an elite cadre of the Civil Service of Pakistan.
The Pakistan Air Force runs the Shaheen Foundation which founded Shaheen Insurance in 1995 as a joint venture with a South African insurance company, Hollard Group.
The Pakistan Army builds major civil engineering landmarks in the country, including the Karakoram Highway, Skardu Airport, and the national security sites in Kahuta.
The Pakistan Army has a division dedicated towards conducting the unconventional and asymmetric warfare operations, established with the guidance provided by the United States Army in 1956.
The Pakistan Army has played an integral part in the civil society of Pakistan, almost since its inception.
The Pakistan Army has received foreign awards for its services to other nations.
The Pakistan Army is operationally and geographically divided into various corps.
The Pakistan Army or Pak Army (Urdu: پاک فوج, romanized: Pāk Fauj, pronounced [ˈpaːk fɔːdʒ]) is the land service branch and the largest component of the Pakistan Armed Forces.
The Pakistan Army's business interests, managed through foundations like the Fauji Foundation, have been a subject of international scrutiny.
The Pakistan Army's landmark civil engineering projects included the Lyari Expressway in Karachi, Makran Coastal Highway in Balochistan and the Khanpur Dam in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa.
The Pakistan Constitution guides general elections in Part VIII, Chapter 2 and various amendments.
The Pakistan Muslim League (N) generally opposes labour union management and large-scale workers' unions.
The Pakistan Muslim League (N) is credited for ordering and authorizing the country's first nuclear tests (see Chagai-I and Chagai-II) amid immense international pressure.
The Pakistan Muslim League (N) policies include conservative liberalism, environmental conservation, and most importantly, economic liberalism.
The Pakistan Muslim League (N) remains sceptical about the country's role in the war on terror, although it is firmly opposed to religious extremism and terrorism in all its manifestations.
The Pakistan Muslim League (N) struck its remarkable, biggest, and most notable achievement in the 1997 parliamentary elections, held on 3 February 1997.
The Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) (abbr.
The Pakistan Muslim League went into a political abyss after the death of Nurul Amin and during the PPP government of Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
The Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI)[a] is a political party in Pakistan established in 1996 by cricketer and politician Imran Khan, who served as the country's prime minister from 2018 to 2022.
The Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf won a landslide victory on 15 of those 20 seats, leading to the collapse of Chief Minister Hamza Shahbaz's PML(N)-led coalition government.
The Pakistani ambassador to Austria is cross-accredited be the non-residential ambassador to Slovakia.
The Pakistani ambassador to Italy is accredited as a non-residential ambassador to San Marino.
The Pakistani ambassador to Romania is accredited as a non-residential ambassador to Moldova.
The Pakistani constitution mandates the role of the president of Pakistan as the civilian commander-in-chief of the Pakistani military.
The Pakistani economy suffered $23.77 billion in 2010-11 due to expenses related to war on terrorism.
The Pakistani general election of 2013 were held on 11 May 2013.
The Pakistani government disbanded the ISI's political wing in 2008 after its discovery.
The Pakistani women of today do, however, enjoy a better status than in the past.
The Panama Papers case was a landmark decision by the Supreme Court of Pakistan that disqualified the incumbent prime minister of Pakistan, Nawaz Sharif, from holding public office for life.
The Parliament enjoys parliamentary supremacy.
The Parliament of Pakistan consists of the president and two houses to be known respectively as National Assembly and the Senate.
The Parliament of Pakistan – viz the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan – met on 10 August 1947 in the old Sindh Assembly Building at Karachi.
The Parliament of Pakistan, according to the Constitution of 1973, is bicameral.
The Parliament of Pakistan[a] is the supreme[b] legislative body of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
The Parliament scrutinises public spending and exercises control of expenditure incurred by the government through the work of the relevant standing committees.
The Parliament – the Senate and the National Assembly – have acquired a permanent abode in the present Parliament House, which was inaugurated on 28 May 1986.
The Parliamentary Committee confirms or may not confirm the nominee of the Judicial Commission.
The Part VII of the Constitution of Pakistan reconstituted the composition of Supreme Court and the high courts but it does not specify the number of justices to be served in the Supreme Court.
The Politics of Pakistan (سیاسیاتِ پاکستان ; ALA-LC: Siyāsiyāt-e-Pākistān) takes place within the framework established by the constitution.
The President acts as the ceremonial figurehead while the people-elected prime minister acts as the chief executive (of the executive branch) and is responsible for running the federal government.
The President appointed his Cabinet members who were directly responsible to him.
The President is elected by members of both Houses of the Parliament and the Provincial Assemblies.
The President of Pakistan, officially the President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, is the ceremonial head of state of Pakistan and the commander-in-chief of the Pakistan Armed Forces.
The President of Pakistan[a] is the head of state of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
The President then confirms the nomination summary and eventually appoints the Chief Justice and judges in the Supreme Court.
The President was the Head of State, and was to be elected by all Members of the National and Provincial Assemblies.
The President was to act on the advice of Prime Minister, except where he was empowered to act in his discretion.
The President's power to dismiss the Prime Minister and dissolve the National Assembly was removed by the Thirteenth Amendment and partially restored by the Seventeenth Amendment.
The President, according to the Constitution, is at the apex, representing the unity of the Republic.
The Prime Minister and the Cabinet Ministers are jointly accountable to the Parliament.
The Prime Minister is chosen from the National Assembly.
The Prime Minister is the final authority on all matters regarding the civil service.
The Prime Minister of Pakistan (Urdu: وزیراعظم; lit: Wazir-e- Azam), is the executive head of government of Pakistan, constitutionally designated as the Chief Executive (CE).
The Prime Minister of Pakistan is elected by the National Assembly.
The Prime Minister, who heads the Cabinet and is meant to aid and advise the president in his functions, belongs to the National Assembly.
The Public Accounts Committee has a special role in reviewing the report of the auditor general.
The Quaid gave a reply to the address in the house, on which the principles of the State of Pakistan were laid.
The Quaid remained in this position till his death on 11 September 1948.
The Secretary is responsible for the day-to-day administration of the council and for implementing the decisions of the council.
The Senate consists of 104 Members including 17 Seats reserved for Women and 17 Seats reserved for Technocrats and Ulema.
The Senate has 104 members who serve six-year terms which are alternated so that half the senators are up for re-election by the electoral college every three years.
The Senate has several exclusive powers not granted to the National Assembly, including the powers of making parliamentary bills as a being enforced into law.
The Senate is a permanent legislative body with equal representation from each of the four provinces, elected by the members of their respective provincial assemblies.
The Senate is not subject to dissolution.
The Senate secretariat is located in the east wing of the Parliament Building; the National Assembly convenes in the west wing of the same building.
The Senate's role is to promote national cohesion and harmony and work as a stabilising factor of the federation.
The Senate, is a body which represents the provinces/territories of the country and promotes a feeling of equality, peace and harmony, which is essential for the growth and prosperity of a nation.
The Shariat Appellate Bench is composed of legal scholars that have expertise on Islamic jurisprudence since its establishment in 1980.
The Soviet–Afghan War in the 1980s saw the enhancement of the ISI's covert operations.
The Speaker of the House is the presiding officer of the National Assembly.
The State of Pakistan was created under the Independence Act of 1947.
The Supreme Court Building is designed by the renowned Japanese architect, Kenzo Tange, in a modernist style complementing the Parliament Building.
The Supreme Court Building is located at the Constitution Avenue in Islamabad, flanked by the Prime Minister's Office to the south, the Presidential Palace and the Parliament Building to the north.
The Supreme Court Judges are supervised by the Supreme Judicial Council.
The Supreme Court Library contains the collection of 72,000 law books, reports and journals is situated in the basement.
The Supreme Court Museum serves as an invaluable repository for preserving the judicial history of post- and pre-Independence era for future generation.
The Supreme Court also overruled and overturned its convictions that called for validation of martial law in 1958.
The Supreme Court building is within the ambit of the Islamabad Police, maintaining the law and order as well as campus security of the court.
The Supreme Court has a permanent seat in Islamabad and meets at the Supreme Court Building at the Red Zone.
The Supreme Court has an extensive competitive program for the appointment of the law clerks and research associates at the Supreme Court Library.
The Supreme Court has maintained its institutional integrity and has been able to maintain its authority to some degree in the face of martial law in Pakistan in last decades.
The Supreme Court has original, appellate, and advisory jurisdiction.
The Supreme Court hires the law clerks based on the recommendations provided by their professors from their respected universities and colleges.
The Supreme Court is empowered to frame its own rules for the purpose of regulating the practice and procedure of the Court.
The Supreme Court is the only federal court that has jurisdiction over the direct appeals from high courts decisions, as powers granted by the Constitution as an appellate jurisdiction.
The Supreme Court later declared the election of Hamza Shehbaz as Chief Minister unconstitutional and stated that the deputy speaker’s actions in the election were unconstitutional.
The Supreme Court of Pakistan Press is the official authority that publishes the reportable Supreme Court's decisions and opinions, as well as judicial supplements, law reports, and bibliographies.
The Supreme Court of Pakistan consists of a Chief Justice, and Senior Justices appointed by the President after consultation with the Chief Justice of Pakistan.
The Supreme Court thus provides, in principle, an important safeguard against the abuse of laws that could potentially have politically repressive consequences or in clear violation of human rights.
The Supreme Court took notice of several important constitutional and other cases in the period that related to the public interest.
The Supreme Court validated the coup and gave General Pervez Musharraf three years to hold general elections.
The Supreme Court's opinions are first published and is made available on the Court's web site, in form of "press release".
The Supreme Court, established in 1956, is the apex court in Pakistan's judicial hierarchy, the final arbiter of legal and constitutional disputes.
The Tehsils are used in all over the Pakistan except Sindh province where the word "Taluka" is used instead, although the functions and authorities are the same.
The Threat Matrix doctrine analyze the military's comprehensive operational priorities and goes beyond in comprehensively describing both existential and non-existential threats to the country.
The U.S. embassy declined to comment on the protest that also temporarily closed a route leading to one of two border crossings used for the shipments.
The U.S. has repeatedly dismissed Khan's allegations.
The UK equally sees an opportunity to counter instability and militancy through a combined military and 'hearts and minds' approach, through judicial, governance, and security sector reform.
The UK governed Pakistan from 1824 to 1947, when Pakistan achieved full independence.
The US has adopted a joint ‘Af-Pak’ (Afghanistan and Pakistan) strategy in order to suppress the insurgency and defend its national security interests.
The Union Administrator serves as the head of the Union Council and is responsible for overseeing the administration of the council.
The Union Council also has a number of committees, which are responsible for specific areas such as finance, development, and social welfare.
The Union Council also receives funding and support from the provincial and federal governments.
The Union Council is the lowest tier of local government in Pakistan, and it works closely with the Tehsil and District governments to deliver services and implement development plans.
The United States has played an important role in the young history of Pakistan, being one of the first countries to recognize their independence on 14 August 1947.
The Upper House is the Senate whilst the National Assembly is the lower house.
The West Pakistan Family Courts Act 1964 governs the jurisdiction of Family Courts.
The XVII amendment featured a semi-presidential system allowing the presidency to keep the interference[clarification needed] executive and the judiciary.
The Yahya administration is widely accused of permitting the army to commit the war crimes against the civilians in East and curbing civil liberties and human rights in Pakistan.
The ad hoc appointments for this bench are drawn either from the Federal Shariat Court or from among the Clergy.
The administrative head of district judiciary is the 'district and sessions judge'.
The administrative machinery, from the police to vote counters, was reportedly aligned with state interests, suggesting widespread rigging.
The age limit for the high court judge is minimum 45 years.
The alliance formed a government in 1990 under the leadership of Nawaz Sharif.
The amendment allowed the people in tribal areas to enjoy the same constitutional rights as other Pakistanis.
The appeal was admitted but remained unheard as of December 2016.
The appointees include Justice Sarfraz Dogar (Islamabad High Court), Justice Rozi Khan Barrech (Balochistan), Justice Syed Muhammad Attique Shah (Peshawar), and Justice Junaid Ghaffar (Sindh).
The appointments were formalized by the law ministry under Article 193(1) of the Constitution.
The army cadets undergo training in Kakul at the Pakistan Military Academy where basic training takes place.
The army continues to deny independent monitors, lawyers, relatives, or humanitarian agencies access to the prisoners.
The army has a powerful influence in Pakistani politics, and it has been able to silence Khan's critics.
The army has ruled Pakistan for more than half of its history and has always been unwilling to see its influence being compromised by any civilian leaders.
The army held the referendum and tightly control the political situation through the intelligence agencies, and banned the political activities in the country.
The army resisted this move, and Khan eventually backed down.
The army responded by cracking down on Khan's supporters, and several PTI leaders were arrested.
The army service uniform consists of a light khaki (tan) coloured long-sleeved shirt with matching trousers.
The assent was given on it by the Governor General on 2 March 1956.
The attacks are generally attributed to banned militant organizations of Deobandi or Ahl-e-Hadith (Salafi) backgrounds.
The autonomous Princely State of Bahawalpur adopted its own version of the act, namely the Bahawalpur Prevention of Corruption Act, of 1950.
The autonomous and disputed territories of Gilgit-Baltistan and Azad Kashmir have separate judicial systems from the main Pakistani system.
The basic qualifications required are an LL.B from any recognized university, and two years' experience as an advocate in the jurisdiction in question.
The batch of officers who attended the Civil Service Academy in 1973 is recognized as "1st Common".
The bicameral federal legislature consists of the Senate (upper house) and National Assembly (lower house).
The bill relating to the Federal Legislative List can be originated in either house.
The budget is preceded by an economic survey which outlines the broad direction of the budget and the economic performance of the country for the outgoing financial fiscal year.
The bureaucracy consists of 12 directorates that provide vital office and secretariat related duties to the Government of Pakistan.
The bureaucratic influence was strong in the western provinces of Pakistan while the eastern province retained a majority of the population.
The cabinet and its ministers are expected to lay down the policy guidelines, and the civil servants are responsible for implementing and enforcing it.
The candidate must retain the vote of confidence of the members of the parliament before being invited by the president to form the government.
The candidates are transferred to different sections for open source information where they serve for five years.
The candidates for the prime minister are members of the National Assembly who were chosen through direct elections by popular vote following campaigning on the party platforms.
The case was described as the most publicized in Pakistan's history, as well as a "defining moment" for the country.
The case was later dropped when Attorney-General assured the Supreme Court justices that Imran Khan did not insubordinate the judiciary.
The cell forces Federal Departments to acquire autonomous status, but the departments resist on multiple grounds.
The chairman of the Senate, under the constitution, is next in line to act as president should the office become vacant and until such time as a new president can be formally elected.
The change prompted criticism and concern over its potential impact on judicial independence.
The charges are contained in a notice that has to be signed by either the chairman or the speaker of the National Assembly through a two-thirds majority.
The chief election commissioner has to conduct elections to the office of the president in a special session.
The chief justice and judges of the Supreme Court may remain in office until age sixty-five: now 68 years and this is also another clause of seventeenth amendment.
The citizens registered on the electoral rolls are only eligible to cast their votes.
The civil bureaucracy closely collaborated with the military establishments of Pakistani Armed Forces in issues concerning the national security.
The civil disobedience movement turned into an armed liberation movement backed by India.
The civil servants are the permanent officials of the government, occupying a respected image in the civil society.
The civil service exams are competitive and provides equal opportunities to males and females, depending on their qualifications.
The civil service of Pakistan is the permanent bureaucracy of the Government of Pakistan.
The cluster method often used for the coordination and funding of humanitarian responses to IDPs has been criticized many agencies have bypassed the UN cluster, such as OFDA and DfID.
The commissioned army ranks and insignia authorized in the Pakistan Army are modified and patterned on the British Army's officer ranks and insignia system.
The committee chooses from amongst serving or retired judges of the Supreme Court or the high courts or from amongst persons possessing the qualifications of judges of a high court.
The committee further discussed whether the National Database and Registration Authority (NADRA) maintained comprehensive records of dual nationals and their associated countries.
The complex consists of various low-rise buildings separated by lawns and fountains.
The composition of the National Assembly is specified in Article 51 of the Constitution of Pakistan.
The comprehensive training includes military education and development of physical efficiency skills.
The conclusive proof of age is Occification Test.
The conflict between Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and President Ghulam Ishaq Khan arose in two areas regarding the issues of appointments.
The constitution allowed the government-appointed officer and chairman of the Federal Public Service Commission of Pakistan to choose the name.
The constitution prohibits the president from directly running the government.
The constitution provided for parliamentary form of government with a unicameral legislature.
The constitution will be framed on the basis of the six points".
The constitutional amendment ended the Frontier Crimes Regulation (FCR), imposed under British rule in the 1850s.
The continuing dispute over the status of Kashmir inflames opinions in both nations and makes friendly relations difficult.
The controversial murder of Murtaza Bhutto by Sindh Police and the pressure on MQM further weakened Benazir Bhutto.
The country became a republic when its first constitution was approved in 1956 but this was abrogated in 1958 after a military Coup d'état.
The country has extensive trade relations with the European Union and with several countries globally.
The country is a federal parliamentary republic in which provincial governments enjoy a high degree of autonomy and residuary powers.
The country offers a multi-party system, with numerous parties.
The country shares land borders with India, Iran, Afghanistan, and China.
The country's armed forces and the military leadership attempted to negotiate with Sharif and get him to step down.
The court also exercises revisional jurisdiction over the criminal courts, deciding Hudood cases.
The court also has appellate jurisdiction over penalties (hudud) arising out of Islamic law, although these decisions can be reviewed by the Shariat Appellate Bench of the Supreme Court.
The court also highlighted the illegal distribution of Rs 140 million from the state treasury to opposition politicians by Younas Habib, aimed at preventing a PPP victory.
The court appoints its own staff and frames its own rules of procedure.
The court consists of a Chief Justice and sixteen other judges.
The court consists of eight Muslim judges, appointed by the President of Pakistan, on the advice of a judicial committee of the chief justices of the Supreme Court and the Federal Shariat Court.
The court of the district and sessions judge usually hears administrative applications against lower courts orders.
The court order described a meeting held on 7 May 2023, where Khan allegedly directed PTI leaders to prepare for potential unrest on May 9, should he be detained.
The court reserved the right of Judicial Review and power of validity of any act or any action of the government, if challenged, in the light of State necessity.
The crackdown on the PPP and the narrative of corruption against Zardari were key factors contributing to Sharif's overwhelming parliamentary majority.
The cricket board has introduced new anti-corruption laws in order to bring accountability among cricketers and board officials.
The criminal courts were created under the Criminal Procedure Code 1898, during the British Raj, and the civil courts were established by the West Pakistan Civil Court Ordinance 1962.
The crises began in 2022 when the opposition joined hands and submitted a no-confidence motion against Imran Khan's government in the National Assembly.
The current Chief Justice of the Federal Shariat Court is Justice Iqbal Hameed Ur Rehman.
The current National Assembly is the 16th National Assembly of Pakistan, which was formed in February 2024 after the 2024 Pakistani general election.
The current President is Asif Ali Zardari, who took charge on 10 March 2024, following his controversial victory in the 2024 election.
The current Speaker and Deputy Speaker are Ayaz Sadiq (PMLN) and Syed Ghulam Mustafa Shah (PPP) respectively.
The current and former Presidents of Pakistan, in keeping with the constitutional provision that the state religion is Islam, must be Muslim.
The current level of women’s representation in the national and provincial legislatures of Pakistan is amongst the top in the region.
The current office holder is Asif Ali Zardari, who took charge on 10 March 2024, following his victory in the 2023 elections.
The current wave of terrorism peaked during 2009.
The date and time for the summoning of the National Assembly is immediately announced over radio and television.
The date of next General Election was fixed for 28 January 2008.
The decision of the Court summarily removed all justices of the higher judiciary who were not part of it as of 2 November 2007.
The decisions of the court are binding on the High Courts as well as subordinate judiciary.
The decisions of the court are binding on the high courts as well as the subordinate judiciary.
The directions and orders issued by the Supreme Court are finals despite questions are arises during the hearings in the High Court for the directions provided the Supreme court.
The dissolution of the National Assembly was challenged in the Supreme Court of Pakistan and after hearing the case the Assembly was restored by the Supreme Court on 26 May 1993.
The division of power into separate branches of government is central to the republican idea of the separation of powers.
The document guides Pakistan's law, political culture, and system.
The draft of this Constitution was introduced in the Assembly on 9 January 1956 and was passed by the Assembly on 29 February 1956.
The due process clause of the Constitution was partly based on the British Common law, as many founding fathers and legal experts of the country had followed the British legal tradition.
The duties of conducting elections are established in the Constitution of Pakistan.
The economy teetered on the brink of collapse, attributed to years of financial mismanagement, natural disasters, and political turmoil.
The election of the two officers is the first matter an incoming National Assembly deals with, as mandated by the constitution.
The election polls announced the victory of the Pakistan Muslim League (Q) and the liberals, MQM, with PML-Q retaining the majority in the state parliament and brutally defeating the PML-N.
The election process for Union Council members is organized and conducted by the Chief Election Commissioner.
The election to these reserved seats is held separately, and all members of the Union Councils in a Tehsil or Town are eligible to vote.
The election took place on 8 February 2024 across the country.
The election was held on an universal basis with approximately one-million voters.
The election was postponed in the NA-8 Bajaur constituency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa due to the killing of candidate Rehan Zeb Khan.
The election was won by the Awami League, having 167 seats out of 313, and Sheikh Mujibur Rahman was to be the first democratically elected Prime Minister of Pakistan.
The election, originally scheduled for 16 April was moved ahead to 6 April by the deputy speaker.
The elections are held on a non-party basis, and candidates are required to be residents of the union council area.
The elections are typically held every four years, although the exact term may vary depending on the province.
The elections for eleventh National Assembly was held on 3 February 1997.
The elections for tenth National Assembly was held on 6 October 1993.
The elections for twelfth National Assembly was held on 10 October 2002.
The elections resulted in the victory of IJI, with Nawaz Sharif becoming prime minister.
The elections saw the PTI secure a majority of seats in the National Assembly with 116 seats won.
The elections were marred by terrorist attacks that killed hundreds and wounded more than 500 and widespread rigging of polls, the highest in the country's recorded history.
The elections were originally meant to be conducted in 2023 but were delayed due a pertaining legal issue between PTI and Election Commission of Pakistan.
The electoral system was made indirect, and the 'Basic Democrats', for both wings were declared Electoral College for the purpose of electing the assemblies and the president.
The entrance to the complex is next to a private hospital.
The events leading to it resulted in military intervention by chief of army staff General Zia-ul-Haq and Chairman Joint Chiefs Admiral Mohammad Shariff.
The exams include various compulsory papers.
The fact remains that the Quetta Shura [Taliban] and the Haqqani Network operate from Pakistan with impunity ...
The failure of 1987 elections in Kashmir, and afterwards the arrest of Muhammad Yusuf, a.k.a.
The federal secretaries are the most senior, experienced, and capable officials in the country.
The final draft of the Constitution was prepared in 1954.
The financial accountability introduced by Khyber Pakhtunkhwa under PTI's government entitled it to an extra Rs 1.5 billion ($150 million) from the federal government.
The firing left the Hindu residential locality near Bugti's residence badly hit.
The first accounts showed the PTI winning overwhelmingly, achieving two thirds of the National and Punjab Provincial Assembly seats.
The first decade was marred with political unrest and instability, with frequent collapses of civilian democratic governments that eventually led to the 1958 military coup.
The first direct elections held in the country after independence were for the Provincial Assembly of the Punjab between 10 and 20 March, The elections were held for 197 seats.
The first local government election was held in 1959 under the dictatorship of Ayub Khan.
The first president was Iskander Ali Mirza who entered office on 23 March 1956.
The first prime minister, Liaquat Ali Khan, exercised central executive powers until his assassination in 1951.
The first session of the National Assembly was held 20 March 1985.
The first session of the National Assembly was held on 17 March 2008.
The first session of the first Constituent Assembly of Pakistan was held on 10 August 1947 at Sindh Assembly Building in Karachi.
The first session of the first Constituent Assembly of Pakistan was held on 10 August 1947 at Sindh Assembly Building, in Karachi.
The first session of the third National Assembly was held on 8 June 1962 at Ayub Hall, Rawalpindi.
The first session of this council was held on 11 January 1982.
The first session was convened by the President on 30 November 1988.
The first session was held on 15 February 1997.
The first session was held on 15 October 1993.
The first session was held on 3 November 1990.
The first set of the Constitution had evolved the governor-general into the president of Pakistan whilst declaring the country an "Islamic republic".
The first six articles of the constitution outline the political system as a federal parliamentary republic system; as well as Islam as its state religion.
The five provinces, capital territory of Pakistan are subdivided into 37 administrative "divisions".
The force is charged with the security of Parliament House and the National Assembly.
The foremost task before the first Constituent Assembly was the framing the Constitution for the nation.
The foundation also has subsidiaries that contribute to the civilian economy through various enterprises, including bakeries, security services and banking.
The foundation and ground base of the PML-N lies with the Pakistan Muslim League, which was founded in 1962 as an enriched conservative project derived from the defunct Muslim League.
The fourteenth Amendment in the Constitution empowered a check on floor crossing of legislators.
The full name of the country is the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
The gender ratio among Parliamentary Secretaries is 14:36.
The general election held in 2013 saw the PML(N) almost achieve a supermajority.
The general election in 2008 resulted in a PPP victory.
The general elections held in 1977 resulted in an atmosphere of civil unrest instigated by the right-wing alliance, the Pakistan National Alliance.
The general elections held in 1985 restored the post, with Muhammad Junejo becoming the prime minister.
The general elections held in 1988 witnessed the victory of PPP in 1988 and appointed Senate chairman Ghulam Ishaq Khan to the presidency.
The general elections in 1985 were non-partisan general elections, but many technocrats belonged to the one party to another.
The general elections in 1988 resulted in the Pakistan Peoples Party's Benazir Bhutto becoming the first woman prime minister elected in a Muslim country.
The general elections in 1993 saw the PPP forming government after successfully seeking plurality in the Parliament.
The general elections in 2008 resulted in the PPP coming to power and supporting the movement to oust Pervez Musharraf.
The general elections of 1988 marked the emergence of the Pakistan People’s Party's as the single largest political party, with its election to 94 of 237 seats in the state parliament.
The general principle is that the total number of votes cast by members of Parliament equals the total number of votes cast by provincial legislators.
The government consists of three branches: executive, legislative and judicial.
The government has been struggling to provide support to an area traditionally marginalized and remote and is also keen to downplay the scale of the crisis.
The government held 177 seats in the assembly.
The government is widely seen as having no control over the armed forces and the Inter-Services Intelligence.
The government maintained that Khan called off the march owing to a lack of political support.
The government may also set up administrative courts and tribunals for exercising exclusive jurisdiction in specific matters.
The government was set to finish its term in 2023 but was ousted in a 2022 no confidence motion.
The group Hizbul Mujahideen was created as the Kashmiri branch of Jamaat-i-Islami.
The group War Against Rape (WAR) has documented the severity of rape in Pakistan, and the police indifference to it.
The growing instigated violence against Pakistanis in East Pakistan forced President Yahya Khan to use force in order to maintain order there, which further escalated Bengali resistance (1970).
The hacked website made derogatory remarks about Chief Justice Chaudhry.
The harassment of women has also been reported at PTI's gatherings.
The head of state is the president who is elected by the electoral college for a five-year term.
The head of the Tehsil government is "Tehsil Nazim" who is assisted by the tehsil Naib-Nazim.
The highest attainable rank for an officer who serves in the country's bureaucracy is BPS-22 grade.
The highest court of appeals in Azad Jammu and Kashmir is the Supreme Court of Azad Jammu and Kashmir.
The highest court of appeals in Pakistan's Gilgit Baltistan area is the Supreme Appellate Court Gilgit-Baltistan.
The highest ratio of women’s representation in the National Assembly of Pakistan was around 22 percent between 2008 and 2013.
The historic 18th Constitutional Amendment was presented and passed by the National Assembly on 8 April 2010 and Senate on 15 April 2010 respectively.
The house convenes at the Parliament House, Red Zone, Islamabad.
The house initiates the process by levelling the charges against the president.
The human rights violations of the Ahmadiyya community has been systematic and state-sponsored.
The idea of civil service was established by the British Empire during the colonial period of the British Indian Empire.
The impeachment process may start in either of the two houses of the Parliament.
The inaugural session of the National Assembly was held on 16 November 2002 and Ch Amir Hussain and Sardar Muhammad Yaqoob were elected Speaker and Deputy Speaker respectively on 19 November 2002.
The incident underscored ongoing tensions between Pakistan's judiciary and intelligence agencies, reflecting broader issues of governance and institutional integrity.
The increasing Islamization has caused many Hindus to leave Hinduism and seek emancipation by converting to other faiths such as Buddhism and Christianity.
The incumbent governor-general, Iskander Mirza, became Pakistan's first president by 1956 Pakistani presidential election.
The incumbent president is eligible for re-election to that office, but cannot hold that office for more than two consecutive terms.
The independence of the Pakistani judiciary has changed over time.
The industrial concern GIDS has also emerged as a major manufacturer of drones and other defence equipment.
The influence of the Pakistani military in politics has always been a topic of debate.
The institutional de jure powers of the Supreme Court were restored to its original position after the passing of the Eighth Amendment in 1985.
The intensifying US-China Strategic Rivalry has put Pakistan in an extremely difficult situation to maintain ties with both of these states.
The interviews are conducted by a committee headed by the Chairman of the Federal Public Service Commission, the same as in the case of regular candidates.
The judges hold office for a period of three years, which may eventually be extended by the President.
The judges serve terms of three years, subject to extension by the President.
The judiciary enjoys full supremacy over the other organs of the state.
The judiciary includes the Supreme Court, provincial high courts, District & sessions Courts, Civil and Magistrate courts exercising civil and criminal jurisdiction.
The judiciary of Pakistan is the national system of courts that maintains the law and order in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
The judiciary's function is to interpret the Constitution and federal laws and regulations.
The killing of Naqeebullah Mehsud has brought forth accusations that Pashtuns are racially profiled.
The lack of enthusiasm regarding the outcome was highlighted by the pre-emptive publication of Ayub Khan's inaugural plans by Dawn, several days before the official vote count was confirmed.
The largest PTI claims over a constituency have occurred over NA-130 Lahore-XIV, which PTI claims that jailed PTI senior Yasmin Rashid won against 3-time former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif.
The largest rift in relations would be with the Pakistan Armed Forces, which PTI’s relations would worsen with in 2022.
The latter body, presided over by the Prime Minister of Pakistan, exercises paramount authority over the AJK Legislative Assembly, which cannot challenge decisions of the council.
The law allows the civil service of the federation and provinces to be regulated as per rules notified under these enactments.
The law experts, constitutional analysts, and country's reputed clergymen worked on formulating a constitution that they hoped would represent the will and desire of people.
The law is applicable to the whole of Pakistan.
The law warrants separate Camera trial of the juvenile providing all privileges to the juvenile accused as per the Act of 2018.
The leader of PML-N, Nawaz Sharif, won a third term as Prime Minister of Pakistan, the first time this had happened in the history of the country.
The legislation makes way for provisions that add transparency to the various functions and departments of the government.
The main objective of the ISI is to covertly collect & analyze intelligence overseas that is deemed relevant to Pakistan's national security and interests.
The maintenance of national security, which was the principal function of these agencies, resulted in the consolidation of the Ayub regime.
The major function of the General Council Meeting (or Central Working Committee) is to elect presidents and secretaries, while it is also responsible for promoting PML-N activities.
The majority of victims of violence have no legal recourse.
The manipulation of the 1990 election can be traced back to the pre-1988 electoral landscape, with the formation of the Islami Jamhoori Ittehad(IJI), a coalition of nine parties.
The march to the Capital as it was called was an important rally for Khan's attempt to undo his removal from office.
The martial law imposed in 1958 eventually outlawed all political parties in the country.
The membership of the Senate, which was originally 45, was raised to 63 in 1977 and to 87 in 1985.
The military forced the courts to convict Sharif and sentence him to life imprisonment in 2000.
The military government and President Yahya himself made no efforts to frame a constitution, aside from issuing the extrajudicial order in 1970.
The most common types of corruption were billing related.
The mujahideen fighters were trained by Pakistan's military, American CIA and other western intelligence agencies who continued operations in the area after the war officially ended.
The name is badged on the right pocket and the left pocket displays achievement badges by Pakistan Army.
The nationalisation programme badly affected the reputation of the Pakistan Peoples Party.
The nationalist Awami League (AL) secured the mandate of East Pakistan but failed to perform in any four provinces of Pakistan.
The new Assembly came into power with an overwhelming majority.
The new administration did not satisfy CMLA Ayub Khan who had more control in the administration than President Mirza.
The next day, Pakistani authorities claimed they were unable to capture Khadir.
The no-confidence motion has the signatures of more than 20 members.
The nomination comes directly from the Judicial Commission chaired by the Chief Justice who prepares the nomination summary as President confirms their appointments.
The noncommissioned officers (or enlists) wear respective regimental color chevrons on the right sleeve.
The norm was established that if the president was from West Pakistan, the Speaker was to be from East Pakistan and vice versa.
The notice is sent up to the president, and 14 days later it is taken up for consideration.
The offensive brought peace in those areas and the rest of the country.
The office of Mohtasib was established in many early Muslim states to ensure that no wrongs were done to citizens.
The office of president was created upon the proclamation of Islamic Republic on 23 March 1956.
The official residence, known as Prime Minister Enclave, is near the Prime Minister's Office.
The operation launched a new era of bloodshed in Karachi and many party leaders from MQM were arrested.
The operation resulted in major unrest as the PMLN government tried to nab the criminal elements ravaging the city of Karachi.
The operation was successful and Pakistan experienced sharp decline in terrorism since the launch of the operation.
The opposition also claimed it had the support from a group of PTI MNAs led by ex-secretary general of the PTI, Jahangir Tareen.
The opposition charged the government with rigging the elections to the National Assembly and thereafter boycotted the Provincial Assemblies elections.
The order of precedence change from Navy–Army–Air Force to Army–Navy-Air Force, with army being the most senior service branch in the structure of the Pakistani military.
The order revealed that Khan had instructed PTI leaders to create chaos and exert pressure for his release if arrested, as testified by two prosecution witnesses.
The ordinance provides a ready and convenient tool in the hands of fundamentalists and the government to incriminate Ahmadis on flimsy grounds and petty excuses.
The ordinance was a green signal for anti-Ahmadiyya elements to open the floodgates of tyranny with the help of the State.
The organisation has also given aid to Hizbul Mujahideen.
The overarching intelligence coordination body was given assent by the Prime Minister of Pakistan in November 2020.
The parliament has passed the Juvenile Justice System Act 2018.
The parliament's both houses convene at the Parliament House within the governmental Red Zone of Islamabad, the federal capital.
The participants demanded that the government eliminate militancy and ensure sustainable peace.
The party also appointed governors: Chaudhry Sarwar as Governor of Punjab, Imran Ismail as Governor of Sindh, and Shah Farman as Governor of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
The party also became the largest opposition party in Sindh and received significant representation in Balochistan.
The party asserted its role as opposition to the Pakistan People’s Party.
The party became an integral part of the nine-party alliance, PNA, against the PPP, and campaigned against the PPP in the 1977 general elections.
The party conducted another intra-party election on 3 March 2024.
The party failed to field candidates in 19 out of Interior Sindh's 40 constituencies.
The party founder, Imran Khan, burned his utility bills to encourage participants to join his protest against rising electricity prices.
The party had supported the presidency of Zia-ul-Haq and won his support to appoint Mohammad Khan Junejo to the office of Prime Minister.
The party is led by Gohar Ali Khan since late 2023.
The party is not the original Muslim League, but is accepted as its continuing legal successor.
The party was involved in laying siege and paralyzing the capital of Pakistan, Islamabad, to stop the Government from functioning.
The position was absent during the years of 1958–1973, 1977–1985, and 1999–2002 due to imposed martial law.
The posts at the initial officer level, i.e.
The powers slowly began to be reduced as a result of constant intervention by the governor-general.
The presidency forms the vital institutional organ of state and is part of the bicameral Parliament.
The president can be removed for violation of the Constitution of Pakistan.
The president generally acts on the advice of the prime minister but has important residual powers.
The president has the right to defend oneself.
The president himself has absolute constitutional immunity from criminal and civil proceedings, and no proceedings can be initiated or continued against him during the term of his office.
The president is a ceremonial post, head of state, and merely a figurehead with the executive powers granted to the prime minister, by the Constitution.
The president is elected by the Electoral college, which consists of both houses of Parliament together with the provincial assemblies.
The president is elected for a term of 5 years.
The president is elected indirectly for a term of five years.
The president is indirectly elected by the Electoral College for a five-year term.
The president is the nominal head of the executive and the federal parliament, the first citizen of the country, and the supreme commander of the Pakistan Armed Forces.
The president may be removed before the expiry of the term through impeachment.
The president may resign or be impeached and may be removed from office due to incapacity or gross misconduct by a two-thirds vote of the members of the parliament.
The president of Pakistan is elected through presidential elections.
The president of Pakistan is the supreme commander of the army.
The president resides in an estate in Islamabad known as Aiwan-e-Sadar (President's House).
The president was a significant authority until the 18th amendment, passed in 2010, stripped the presidency of most of its powers.
The president, upon the advice of the Prime Minister, has full powers to summon and prorogue either house or a joint session of Parliament or to dissolve the National Assembly.
The president, who is at the apex, is elected by members of both houses of the Parliament and the Provincial Assemblies.
The prime minister can be removed before the expiry of the term through a vote of no confidence in the parliament.
The prime minister has absolute constitutional immunity from criminal and civil proceedings, and no proceedings can be initiated or continued against him during the term of his office.
The prime minister is appointed by the members of the National Assembly through a vote.
The prime minister is assisted by the Federal Cabinet, a council of ministers whose members are appointed by the president on the advice of the prime minister.
The prime minister is designated as the "chief executive of the Islamic Republic".
The prime minister is elected by the National Assembly.
The prime minister is elected by the members of the National Assembly and is therefore usually the leader of the majority party in the parliament.
The prime minister is often the leader of the party or the coalition with a majority in the lower house of the federal parliament, the National Assembly, where he serves as leader of the House.
The prime minister is the chief executive who heads and exercises the authority of the Government of Pakistan.
The prime minister of Pakistan is the head of government and has the responsibility for executive power.
The prime minister of Pakistan[b] is the head of government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
The prime minister, in common with all other ministers, has to be a member of National Assembly.
The prime minister, in consultation with the Cabinet, schedules and attends the sessions of the Parliament and is required to answer questions from members of parliament to the ministers.
The principal workplace of the prime minister is the Prime Minister's Office located in northeast Islamabad.
The private sector actively encourages western educational models such as the General Certificate of Secondary Education using this to justify unaffordable fees they charge ordinary citizens.
The protesters broke into the regional commander's house in Lahore and burned the building.
The protesters, led by Imran Khan, aimed to hold a sit-in at D-Chowk in Islamabad until the date for the dissolution of assemblies and a date for new general elections was announced.
The provincial bureaucracies are headed by the respective Chief Secretaries of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Sindh, Punjab and Balochistan.
The provincial government that exercise administrative control over them appoints such officers.
The provincial governments tend to have the greatest influence over most Pakistanis' daily lives.
The provisions of the Government of India Act, 1935, had greatly influenced the state and served as its basic legal document until 1956.
The rallies were attended by prominent leaders, including Manzoor Pashteen of the Pashtun Tahaffuz Movement (PTM) and Sardar Hussain Babak of the Awami National Party.
The recommendation for appointment in BS-17, under direct recruitment share, is done by the Federal Public Service Commission, established under its law as a requirement of the Constitution.
The referendum was seen by many as a sham or fixed.
The registry branches provides speedy justice of all nature of crimes and disputes to the people living in remote areas in the country, while keeping the civil registry of the people.
The registry of the Supreme Court is its appointed officers who is assisted by registrars, several additional and deputy registrars, gazetted officers, and other law clerks.
The relationship relies on shared values of anti-colonialism and common allies.
The reorganization of the position standing army in 2008, the Pakistan Army now operates six tactical commands, each commanded by the GOC-in-C, with a holding three-star rank: Lieutenant-General.
The report also highlighted broad changes in the examination system, with the recommendation that a personality test be made part of the selection process.
The report brought to light widespread intimidation of journalists by various government, military and security agencies with killings allegedly being carried out by the Inter-Services Intelligence.
The report of the committee was presented with a draft Constitution on 31 December 1972.
The resignation was accepted by the governor on 1 April 2022.
The rest of the day is allocated for the recording of the evidence in sessions cases such as in offences murder, rape and robbery etc.
The rest of the seats went to the independents.
The result of the proceedings was the acquittal of PML-N leader Nawaz Sharif by the Islamabad High Court (IHC) on 29 November 2023 from the charges pertaining to the Avenfield Apartments references.
The revelation emerged during a meeting of the NA Standing Committee on Interior.
The revenue courts may be classified as the Board of Revenue, the Commissioner, the Collector, the Assistant Collector of the First Grade and Second Grade.
The roots of terrorism in Pakistan can be traced back to 1979 when Soviet Union had occupied Afghanistan.
The ruling also installed Chaudhry Pervaiz Elahi as the Chief Minister of Punjab.
The seats in National Assembly, unlike the Senate, are allocated to each province and other units of the federation, on the basis of population.
The seats in the National Assembly are allocated to each of four provinces, the FATA and the federal capital on the basis of population in accordance with the last officially published census.
The seats in the National Assembly are allocated to each province and the federal capital based on population, as officially published in the preceding census.
The second Constituent Assembly of Pakistan was created on 28 May 1955 under Governor General's Order No.12 of 1955.
The second local government election was held in 1979 under the dictatorship of General Zia-ul-Haq.
The secretaries, who are basic pay scale (BPS)-22 grade officers, are largely considered to be the most powerful officials in the country.
The senators are elected by the members of all provincial assemblies (MPAs) by proportional representation, while four represent the federal capital.
The sentence also extended to his daughter Maryum Nawaz, and Son-in-Law Retired Captain Safdar, who were given 7 years and 1 year imprisonment respectively.
The separation of powers system is designed to distribute authority away from the executive branch – an attempt to preserve individual liberty in response to tyrannical leadership throughout history.
The service of Pakistan Administrative Service is very versatile in nature and officers are assigned to different departments all across Pakistan during the course of their careers.
The single combat headquarter, the Army GHQ, is located in Rawalpindi Cantonment in Punjab in Pakistan, in the vicinity of the Joint Staff Headquarters.
The socialist Pakistan People's Party (PPP) under the leadership of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto gained a mandate in Punjab and Sindh but failed in East Pakistan, NWFP and Balochistan.
The speaker is assisted by the Deputy Speaker.
The speaker of the National Assembly then summons the joint session not earlier than seven days.
The special operation forces training school is located in Cherat in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
The state foreign policy includes defining the national interest, as well as the economic interest and strategies chosen both to safeguard that and to achieve its policy goals.
The strength of this Assembly was 80 Members, half each from East Pakistan and West Pakistan.
The subsequent takeover of Afghanistan by the Afghan Taliban was followed by the release of 1500 TTP militants from Afghan jails.
The successful independence movement led the establishment of Pakistan, independent from the British Raj in 1947.
The successive governments in Pakistan, and the parliamentarians have contributed to ensure women's significant representation in the legislative bodies.
The superior judiciary is composed of the Supreme Court of Pakistan, the Federal Shariat Court and five High Courts, with the Supreme Court at the apex.
The system of government in Pakistan is based on codified constitution which sees the prime minister as "chief executive of the Republic".
The task was to be performed by the National Commission of Government Reforms (NCGR) under the chairmanship of Dr. Ishrat Hussain, the former governor of State Bank of Pakistan.
The tensions between Khan and the army arose in 2021, when Khan tried to appoint his own choice as the new ISI chief.
The tenure of a Member of the National Assembly is for the duration of the House, or sooner, in case the Member dies or resigns.
The tenure of the National Assembly also comes to an end if dissolved on the advice of the Prime Minister or by the President in his discretion under the Constitution.
The term "CSS" emerged during the first public examination of the civil service for the appointment on posts at officer entry-level in the occupational groups of All-Pakistan Unified Group (APUG).
The term of the members of the Senate is 6 years.
The term of this Assembly was three years.
The territories of Gilgit-Baltistan and Azad Kashmir are also part of the country but have separate systems and are not part of the federation.
The tests were extremely popular and PML-N's image and prestige rose to a record level at home.
The then serving governor-general, Major General Iskander Mirza, assumed office as the first president.
The then serving governor-general, Major-General Iskander Mirza, assumed office as the first president.
The third local government election was held after the coup tenure of Pervez Musharraf in 2000.
The three major parties Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) led by Imran Khan, the Pakistan Muslim League led by Shehbaz Sharif and the Pakistan Peoples Party led by Bilawal Bhutto.
The top court on Tuesday ordered the government to hold snap polls in the country's most populous province of Punjab on 14 May.
The transmission of data was frozen when publicly released results reached around 60% to 85% of the vote tallying for most constituencies.
The turnout remained low: in Lahore, the turnout was 30 percent of the listed voters, and in rural areas of Punjab it was much lower.
The two countries are members of the OIC, and the Commonwealth of Nations and share similar regional and international concerns.
The two countries are progressing the finalisation of a Free Trade Agreement.
The two countries have agreements on cultural cooperation and visa abolition (for diplomatic/official passport holders).
The two organisations also worked closely during the Soviet–Afghan War supporting groups such as Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's Hezb-i Islami and Jalaluddin Haqqani, leader of the Haqqani network.
The two parties also won 19 of 23 provincial assembly seats where by-elections were held.
The uniform of the Pasban-e-Aman resembles to that of Elite Force having ATS sign on caps and Pasban-e-Aman written on the right shoulder.
The value of the bilateral trade relationship between Pakistan and Canada was close to C$694 million (approximately US$701 million) in 2007.
The vote would be conducted under the supervision of Ayaz Sadiq, resulting in the election of Shehbaz Sharif as the Prime Minister of Pakistan.
The voter turnout for the election was 35,170,435 people (44%).
The voting was scheduled to take place on 3 April.
The war was militarily inconclusive; each side held prisoners and some territory belonging to the other.
The wave of terrorism in Pakistan is believed to have started in 2000.
The women legislators elected through indirect mode of election undermine their credibility and effectiveness as politicians.
Their cases were appealed all the way to the Supreme Court of Pakistan.
Their removal was ordered on the grounds that the de jure Chief Justice was not allowed to advise in these cases.
Their representation remained low in the first and second Constituent Assemblies, however the amendments to the Constitution of Pakistan paved way for their increased participation in the parliament.
Their role is similar to district governors, with responsibility for implementing government strategy and developing initiatives arising out of it.
There are 18 women Senators; Pakistani constitution requires that there be at least 17 women Senators.
There are also extensive people to people links between Canada and Pakistan with an estimated 22,000 Pakistanis living in Canada.
There are also revenue courts that operate under the West Pakistan Land Revenue Act 1967.
There are also special courts to try terrorists.
There are also suggestions that help given to IDPs is informed by cultural and political expediency, as in the case of a $300 family cash grant.
There are approximately 4500 Pakistanis living in Libya.
There are armies which guard their nation's borders, there are armies which are concerned with protecting their own position in society, and there are armies which defend a cause or an idea.
There are around 32,500 Pakistani people living and working in Greece.
There are close relations between Jordan and Pakistan.
There are four provincial governments that rule the four provinces of the state.
There are over five thousand local governments in Pakistan.
There are representatives from the Federally Administered Tribal Areas and from Islamabad Capital Territory.
There are several paths of becoming the commissioned officer in the army including the admission and required graduation from the Pakistan Military Academy in Kakul.
There are thirty-four (34) Standing Committees of the National Assembly, out of which only two (2) are headed by the women MNAs.
There are thirty-six (36) parliamentary secretaries who are serving at different ministries and divisions of the government of Pakistan, out of which fourteen (14) positions are held by women.
There are three major wars that have taken place between the two states, namely in 1947, 1965 and the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971.
There has also been a sharp rise in the popularity of centrist parties such as PML-Q and PTI.
There has been four times that the martial law has been in effect, and controversially approved by the supreme court.
There has since been no major change in this bureaucratic set-up since it was first implemented by the British, although reforms were proposed by the Musharraf regime in 2007.
There have also been conflagrations in the provinces of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Balochistan and Azad Kashmir.
There have been a total of 13 presidents.
There have been a total of 14 presidents.
There have been high-profile corruption cases against high-ranking elected officials in Pakistan.
There have been several thousand "honour" killings in Pakistan in the past decade, with hundreds reported in 2013.
There have been three incarnations of Al-Badr.
There is a Chief Justice and two additional judges on the court.
There is a High Court for each of the four provinces as well as the federal capital.
There is a Pakistan-Uruguay Chamber of Commerce.
There is a Pakistani High Commission located in Sri Lanka and a Sri Lankan High Commission sit"Sri Lanka"uated in Pakistan.
There is a bicameral Parliament with the National Assembly as a Lower house and the Senate as an upper house.
There is a high court for the Islamabad Capital Territory and four provincial high courts.
There is a trade and cultural pact between the two countries, under which the import and export of various goods is done on fairly large scale.
There is also a growing number of Pakistanis (mostly university students) living in Riga.
There is also a preferential trade agreement between the two states.
There is also provision for appointment of acting judges as well as ad hoc judges in the court.
There is little support for those living outside of camps, official support consists only of some food and non-food items and government cash grants.
There is no legal compulsion on women to hold any highest public office.
There is no merit system for selection of Judges to higher Judiciary.
There was an attempted assassination of Imran Khan during the early days of the march.
There were mass speculations that protestors and law enforcement agencies would have violently collided otherwise had they not intervened.
There were nineteen (19) women in the Senate including seventeen elected on reserved seats and two elected on general seats for the term from 2015 to 2018.
There were two main contestants: the Pakistan Muslim League led by President Ayub Khan and the Combined Opposition Parties (COP) under the leadership of Fatima Jinnah.
Thereafter, the Governor General, convened the Second Constituent Assembly in May 1955, which framed and passed the first Constitution of Pakistan on 29 February 1956.
Therefore, both nation's armies will be evenly matched in the first 24 hours since the Pakistani units have to travel a shorter distance to their forward positions.
Therefore, they needed to win 13 seats to gain a majority in the assembly.
Therefore, they needed to win 9 seats to gain a majority in the assembly.
Those who pass both these stages are interviewed by members of Service Commissions, and recommendations are made to the respective High Courts for appointments.
Though Butt was not the preferred choice of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, he grew close with him, and Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee General Pervez Musharraf took over important ISI files.
Thousands of people rounded up as suspected terrorists continue to languish in illegal military detention without being produced in court or prosecuted.
Three people died and more than 595 people were injured, including 115 police officers.
Through IJI, the conservative forces under Sharif had a chance to form a national government for the first time in the history of Pakistan.
Through a general election where the leader of the majority winning party is selected to be the Prime Minister.
Through several periods of military rule and constitutional suspensions, the court has also established itself as a de facto check on military power.
Through this ordinance, Ahmadi Muslims were deprived of most of their basic human rights and their freedom of faith.
Throughout Pakistan's history, the military consistently maintained a dominant role over the civilian government, a trend that continued into the 2020s.
Thus the total strength of the lower house reached to 237 members.
Thus, Azad Kashmir remains for all intents and purposes under Pakistan's strict control, exercising no real sovereignty of its own.
Thus, the Punjabi landowners remained largely unrepentant of their desires to "[secure] their own hegemony" leading to the loss of the eastern province in 1971.
Thus, the Senate in Pakistan, over the years, has emerged as an essential organ and a stabilizing factor of the federation.
To address material shortages, Pakistan also turned to China for cooperation in establishing essential metal and material industries.
To be a member of the electoral college, according to Article 62 of the Constitution, candidates must be citizens of Pakistan and not less than 25 years of age.
To be eligible for appointment, Lawyers must have ten years' experience as an advocate with good standing in the respective jurisdiction.
To further foster ties between the 2 countries, Brunei-Pakistan Friendship Association (BPFA) was created in 2008.
To prevent protesters from reaching the Srinagar Highway, Red Zone (Islamabad) and entering the capital, hundreds of containers were given to the Islamabad Police and a ban was placed on gatherings.
To this day, Pakistan has a close relationship with Turkey.
Today these are as applicable in actual life as these were 1300 years ago.
Tokyo and Islamabad have had healthy relations with each other since the foundation of their diplomacy in 1952.
Trade and bilateral relationship between the two countries can be largely regarded as being insignificant, and the diplomatic relationship as being largely symbolic.
Trade between Pakistan and France is increasing and France has donated large funds to help Pakistan with its economic problems.
Trinidad is also home to a sizeable number of South Asian Muslims who draw links with Pakistan.
Twenty-one (21) women including 17 on reserved seats and 4 on general seats were elected as Senators who served for the term from 2003 to 2009.
Twenty-seven (27) federal ministers are serving at the different ministries of the Government of Pakistan, out of which three (3) women hold the position of federal ministers.
Two weeks later, Ayub Khan subsequently carried out the 1958 Pakistani coup d'etat and assumed the presidency.
Typically, a show-cause notice is issued, and if the response is unsatisfactory, membership may be terminated.
UAE has been a major donor of economic assistance to Pakistan.
USAID takes into account political as well as humanitarian dimensions in its decision making process.
Ukraine and Pakistan have been cooperating with each other in educational sector as well as cultural exchanges.
Ultimately, the army's high command established the 9th, 16th, and 17th infantry divisions in 1966–68.
Under 1956 Constitution, Parliament was unicameral.
Under Article 50 of the Constitution, the Majlis-i-Shoora (Parliament) of Pakistan consists of the President and two Houses, to be known respectively as the National Assembly and the Senate.
Under Article 50 of the Constitution, the federal legislature is the bicameral Majlis-e-Shoora (Parliament), which comprises the President and the two Houses, the National Assembly and the Senate.
Under Pakistan Technical Assistance Programme (PTAP), Pakistan offers scholarships to the Libyan students.
Under pressure by the PPP, President Yahya postponed the National Assembly session on 25 March which came as a shattering disillusionment to the AL and their supporters throughout East Pakistan.
Under the 1973 Constitution the National Assembly is elected for five years term, unless sooner dissolved.
Under the 1973 Constitution, a member of Parliament may not hold the office of the prime minister more than twice.
Under the Constitution, elections to the 10 seats reserved for minority were held on separate electorate basis.
Under the Constitution, the Parliament may also legislate for two or more Provinces by consent and request made by those Provinces.
Under the Constitution, the Parliament may also legislate for two or more provinces by consent and request made by those provinces.
Under the LFO, the President was to decide when the National Assembly was to meet.
Under the mainframe of the Supreme Judicial Council Article 209 an inquiry into the capacity or conduct of a Judge, who is a member of the council, may be conducted.
Under the provisions of this ordinance, an Ahmadi Muslim could be given rigorous imprisonment of 3 years and fined any amount.
Under the terms of this judgement, the Government and the President's office were bound to act on the recommendations of the Chief Justice of Pakistan.
Under this Constitution, Pakistan became an Islamic Republic, hence 23 March became the country's Republic day.
Under this Constitution, the National Assembly was not to be dissolved earlier than 14 August 1973.
Under this system, the first direct presidential election was held on 2 January 1965.
Unfortunately, it is this class that is selfish and morally and intellectually corrupt.
Unless both the Houses pass a Bill, and it receives the President's assent it cannot become a law including in the case of a money bill which is the sole prerogative of the National Assembly.
Unlike other countries in South Asia, Pakistan army officer uniforms don't include a aiguillette, rather it is used mostly by aid-de-camps.
Unlike the National Assembly, the Senate cannot be dissolved by the President.
Unlike the National Assembly, the Senate is a continuing chamber and hence not subject to dissolution.
Unlike the previous documents, the Constitution cannot be changed, instead constitutional amendments are passed; altering its effect.
Until 1958, Gwadar was part of Oman but was transferred to Pakistan in that year after being sold.
Until the enactment of the Government of India Act 1935 in 1935 that created the Federal Court, these new high courts had the distinctionary powers of being the highest Courts for all cases.
Upon gaining independence, Pakistan inherited a strong bureaucracy and army from the British Raj.
Upon returning from the quick visit in the United States in 1971, President Bhutto forcefully dishonourably discharge seven senior army generals, which he called the "army waderas" (lit.
Upon the creation of Pakistan and departure of the British Crown in 1947, the All-India Muslim League (AIML) became the Muslim League, which was now led by Prime Minister Liaquat Ali Khan.
Urool Iqbal had been living alone at the time of her murder and had only recently filed a complaint against her husband with the police.
Usually officers who join the civil services are of the rank of Captain / Lieutenant / Flight Lieutenant (equivalent to BPS-17 grade).
Usually, the leader of the majority party in the parliament retains the office of prime minister, and forms the government either by coalition or by simple majority.
Violence against women is an important social issue in Pakistan.
Violence in Pakistan and the Taliban conflict with the government have heightened humanitarian problems in Pakistan.
Voting finally took place on 9 April, with Imran Khan losing the vote.
Walter Cawthorn was the first head of the ISI.
Wanting a controlled democracy, President Mirza dismissed four prime ministers in less than two years and his, position in the country was quickly deteriorated amid his actions.
Wary of Soviet expansion, Pakistan had strong relations with both the United States of America and the People's Republic of China during much of the Cold War.
We are the inheritors of these glorious traditions and are fully alive to our responsibilities and obligations as framers of the future constitution of Pakistan.
We have earned bounties totaling millions of dollars.
We have no aggressive designs against any one.
We want to live peacefully and maintain cordial and friendly relations with our immediate neighbours and with (the) world at large.
Websites such as YouTube and many others were in the past blocked by the government for violating blasphemy laws.
Well known Pakistani sportsperson-politician Imran Khan (now the Prime minister) had condemned the forced conversions threat as un-Islamic.
When PML-N leader Shahbaz Sharif was elected prime minister, President Arif Alvi had to take oath from him.
When the PML–Q began to decline in the aftermath of Musharraf's presidency, much of its centrist voter bank was lost to the PTI.
When the certiorari petitions are granted by the Supreme Court, the case is then set for the oral arguments, issuing orders to advocates of concerning parties in the case of importance.
When the system resumed, the updated accounts were found to be greatly inconsistent with the previous ones.
Where it did field candidates, it struggled to surpass the 5% vote benchmark in 18 constituencies.
Whereas the Pakistani ambassador to Sweden is accredited as a non-residential ambassador to Latvia.
Whereas the judiciary used to defer to the Pakistani military, which is a dominant actor in Pakistan's politics, the judiciary has increasingly competed with and confronted the military.
Whichever member of the National assembly is chosen serves as the prime minister until the next election or until he fails to maintain the confidence of the National Assembly.
While PML-N retained its position in central Punjab it faced major setbacks in southern and northern Punjab.
While Pakistan and Tonga maintain diplomatic relationships, they do not have diplomatic missions in each other's country.
While initially ambivalent towards the idea of a Communist country on its borders, Pakistan hoped that the PRC would be a reliable friend.
While internationally acclaimed, his policies were condemned by the PPP.
While it does not have mentionable shares in Sindh, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan Assembly.
While recognising the Committee System, the committees have been empowered to go into all matters of the ministry.
While the total number has never been made public, experts estimate around 10,000 officers and staff, which does not include informants or assets.
While, 168 seats for the provincial assemblies i.e.
With 20 percent representation in each house of the Parliament, women parliamentarians contributed 33 percent of parliamentary business (2018–19).
With Benazir Bhutto elevated to the post Prime Minister of Pakistan, the IDA nominated Abdul Wali Khan as a compromise candidate for opposition leader in the state parliament.
With India intervening in East Pakistan and Pakistan conceding defeat to end the war led to the collapse of the presidential system in 1971.
With India successfully intervening in the conflict, the Pakistan military surrendered to the Indian military and almost 93,000 military personnel were taken as prisoners of war on 16 December 1971.
With Nawaz Sharif exiled to Saudi Arabia, the party's presidency was handed over to Javed Hashmi, and the party began to reassert itself in the coming elections.
With Zafarullah Jamali becoming the Prime Minister in 2002, he left the office for Shaukat Aziz in 2004.
With a maximum membership of 96, provincial legislatures elect 23 each, using single transferable vote; with four representing the federal capital.
With exception to money bills, however, both houses work together to carry out the basic work of the Parliament, i.e.
With exception to money bills, however, both the houses work together to carry out the basic work of the Parliament, i.e.
With no party gaining a majority, a coalition was formed with the PML(Q) – a breakaway of the PML(N) and a pro-Musharraf party – leading with MQM.
With special powers granted to President GI Khan, he dismissed two elected governms ent durithe ng periof od 1990 and 1993; he too was forced out from the office the same year.
With the Socialist Party, the Muslim League struggled for its survival while facing the Republican Party and Awami League.
With the growing influence of the USSR in the region, Pakistan cemented close security relations with China in Asia and United Kingdom and Germany in Europe during most of the Cold War.
With the independence of Pakistan in 1947, the term 'Central Superior Services' was used in Pakistan, and the concept of All-Pakistan Services continued.
With the martial law reming ned effective from 1977 till 1988, civil servant Ghulam Ishaq Khan ran for the presidency on a PPP ticket in a deal to support Benazir Bhutto for presidency.
With the promulgation of the first constitution, Pakistan became an Islamic republic in 1956, and the governor-general was replaced with the presidency.
With these elections, PTI became the first political party in Pakistan to conduct the largest intra-party election based on the general electoral base.
With thousands more being killed since then as the violence has only gotten much worse.
Within 20 months, tales of bad governance and corruption plagued the Pakistan People’s Party's government.
Witnessing the events in 1965, the new drafted constitution created the Electoral College system, making the president as mere figurehead.
Women as equal citizen of Pakistan are free to contest general elections and to be elected to any public office at the national, provincial and local levels without any discrimination.
Women chair 2 out of 34 standing committees of the National assembly and 10 out of 50 Senate Committees.
Women have been part of the Pakistan Army since 1947, and from the army's inception to 2018 approximately 4,000 women served the army though most women were doctors and civilians.
Women parliamentarians have demonstrated strong presence in the legislative bodies.
Women's Parliamentary Caucus (WPC) is a non-partisan informal forum for women parliamentarians of Pakistan.
Worldwide, the best score was 90, the average score was 43, and the worst score was 8.
Yet the success of this approach is by no means clear, as both the government and society at large are not welcoming of foreign interference.
Zambia maintains a General Honorary Consulate in Islamabad, whereas Pakistan's embassy in Zimbabwe is also accredited as High Commission to Zambia.
Zardari's children were also present in the ceremony.
Zardari, hoping to preserve the coalition, told Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani to reject the resignations.
Zia's presidency oversaw the modern growth of far-right ideas in the country.
Zia-ul-Haq's Islamization that followed was resisted by Shia who saw it as "Sunnification" as the laws and regulations were based on Sunni fiqh.
Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, maintaining some aspects of the prior military regime, called for elections for the national and provincial assemblies on 7 and 10 March 1977, respectively.
[c] As of 2024, the parliament has a total strength of 432 with 336 members of the National Assembly (MNAs) and 96 senators.
[clarification needed] Elections are held every three years for one half of the Senate and each Senator has a term of six years.
[failed verification] Each command consists of two or more Corps– an army field formation responsible for zone within a command theater.
[failed verification] Each of the six tactical commands directly reports to the office of Chief of Army Staff, operating directly at the Army GHQ.
and with the controversial assassination of Baloch politician in 2006, the army had to engage in battles with the Baloch separatists fighting for the Balochistan's autonomy.
are appealable to a court of sessions judge which also transfer the criminal Appeals and criminal revisions to Additional Sessions Judges.
custody of minors, recovery of bridal gifts etc.
in 1984, under the orders of Zia-ul-Haq, the ISI prepared for a rebellion, which was to be set in motion in 1991.
stepped up efforts to promote bilateral trade, especially in textiles, oilseeds, extraction of oil and tourism; Pakistan also offered a US$5 million line of credit to Nepal.
to dissolve the government of Nawaz Sharif.
